    Space Policy Review and Strategy on Protection
                     of Satellites


    This report provides a review of space policy and describes the
Department of Defense’s approach to protecting and defending space
 systems and protecting the Joint Force from adversary hostile use of
                                space.




                                     September 2023

Submitted in compliance with the reporting requirements contained in Section 1611 of the
National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 & Section 1602 of the
                                   NDAA for FY 2023.




                            The estimated cost of this report or study for the
                            Department of Defense is approximately $19,000
                              for the 2023 Fiscal Year. This includes $0 in
                                  expenses and $19,000 in DoD labor.
                           Generated on 2023Sep12              RefID: 6-1C58328
                          Department of Defense (DoD) Report
                                           in response to
         Section 1611 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)
                                 for Fiscal Year (FY) 2022
                                                 &
                         Section 1602 of the NDAA for FY 2023

Section 1611 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2022
provides that the Secretary of Defense (SecDef), in consultation with the Director of National
Intelligence (DNI), shall carry out a review of the space policy of the Department of Defense and
submit a report on the results of that review to the congressional defense committees; the
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology; and the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation; and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.

Section 1602 of the NDAA for FY 2023 provides that the SecDef, in coordination with the DNI,
“shall make publicly available a strategy containing the actions that will be taken to defend and
protect on-orbit satellites of the Department of Defense and the intelligence community from the
capabilities of adversaries to target, degrade, or destroy satellites.”

This report serves as response to both requirements and will be made publicly available. Section
III, Deterring, Responding to, and Countering Threats to the Space Operations of the United
States and its Allies and Partners, serves as the response to Section 1602 of the NDAA for FY
2023.

This report contains a classified annex.

The reporting requirements are as follows:
SECTION 1611 OF THE NDAA FOR FY 2022, SPACE POLICY REVIEW

Section 1611 of the NDAA for FY 2022 provides that the SecDef, in consultation with the DNI,
shall carry out a review of the space policy of the Department of Defense, which shall include:

   ➢ “[w]ith respect to the five-year period following the date of the review, an assessment of
     the threat to the space operations of the United States and the allies of the United States”;
     an “assessment of the national security objectives of the Department relating to space”;
   ➢ an “evaluation of the policy changes and funding necessary to accomplish such objectives
     during such five-year period”;




                                                                                                  1
   ➢ an assessment of the policy of the Department with respect to deterring, responding to,
     and countering threats to the space operations of the United States and the allies of the
     United States”;
   ➢ an “analysis of such policy with respect to normative behaviors in space, including the
     commercial use of space”;
   ➢ an “analysis of the extent to which such policy is coordinated with other ongoing policy
     reviews, including reviews regarding nuclear, missile defense, and cyber operations”;
   ➢ a “description of the organization and space doctrine of the Department to carry out the
     space policy of the Department”;
   ➢ an “assessment of the space systems and architectures to implement such space policy”;
     and
   ➢ “[a]ny other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.”

SECTION 1602 OF THE NDAA FOR FY 2023, STRATEGY ON PROTECTION OF
SATELLITES

Section 1602 of the NDAA for FY 2023 provides that the Secretary of Defense, in coordination
with the Director of National Intelligence, shall make publicly available a strategy containing the
actions that will be taken to defend and protect on-orbit satellites of the Department of Defense
and the intelligence community from the capabilities of adversaries to target, degrade, or destroy
satellites.”



I. SECURITY ENVIRONMENT
This section provides an assessment of the threat to the space operations of the United States and
the allies of the Unitd States, at present and with respect to the five-year period following the
date of this review.

People’s Republic of China

The People’s Republic of China (PRC), as part of its military reforms, established the People's
Liberation Army (PLA) Strategic Support Force in 2015 to approach space as a warfighting
domain more effectively. The PRC is also building a space architecture to enhance its ability to
fight and win a modern military conflict. The PLA owns and operates roughly half of the world’s
space-based intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) satellites. Recent
improvements to the PLA’s ISR fleet enhance its ability to monitor forces across the globe,
including U.S. expeditionary forces, increasing the PLA’s ability to conduct long-range strikes
against U.S. and allied forces. The PRC likely intends to leverage these advancements to
challenge the U.S. military’s ability to conduct joint operations in the Indo-Pacific region.

The PRC views counterspace systems as a means to deter and counter outside intervention
during a regional conflict. The PLA is developing, testing, and fielding capabilities intended to
target U.S. and allied satellites, including electronic warfare to suppress or deceive enemy

                                                                                                    2
equipment, ground-based laser systems that can disrupt, degrade, and damage satellite sensors,
offensive cyberwarfare capabilities, and direct-ascent anti-satellite (DA-ASAT) missiles that can
target satellites in low Earth orbit (LEO). The PRC has launched multiple experimental satellites
to research space maintenance and debris cleanup with advanced capabilities, such as robotic
arm technologies that could be used for grappling other satellites. In 2022, the PRC’s Shijian-21
satellite moved a derelict satellite to a graveyard orbit above geosynchronous Earth orbit (GEO).
The PRC continues to seek new methods to hold U.S. satellites at risk, probably intending to
pursue DA-ASAT weapons capable of destroying satellites up to GEO.

As the PRC has developed and fielded these counterspace weapons, it has simultaneously
promoted false claims that it will not place weapons in space and, along with Russia, has
proposed at the United Nations a draft of a flawed, legally-binding treaty on the non-
weaponization of space that is inherently unverifiable and unenforceable.

The Russian Federation

The Russian Federation (Russia) reorganized its military in 2015 to create a separate space force
because Russia sees achieving supremacy in space as a decisive factor in winning conflicts.
Although Russia has a smaller fleet of satellites than China, Russia operates some of the world's
most capable individual ISR satellites for optical imagery, radar imagery, signals intelligence,
and missile warning. Russia increasingly integrates space services into its military, though it
wants to avoid becoming overly dependent on space for its national defense missions because it
views that as a potential vulnerability.

Russia is developing, testing, and fielding a suite of reversible and irreversible counterspace
systems to degrade or deny U.S. space-based services as a means of offsetting a perceived U.S.
military advantage and deterring the United States from entering a regional conflict. These
systems include jamming and cyberspace capabilities, directed energy weapons, on-orbit
capabilities, and ground-based DA-ASAT missile capabilities.

In November 2021, Russia tested a DA-ASAT missile against a defunct Russian satellite, which
created more than 1,500 pieces of trackable space debris and tens of thousands of pieces of
potentially lethal but non-trackable debris. The resulting debris continues to threaten spacecraft
of all nations in LEO, astronauts and cosmonauts on the International Space Station, and
taikonauts on China’s Tiangong space station.1




1
 "2022 Challenges to Security in Space: Space Reliance in an Era of Competition and Expansion," Defense
Intelligence Agency, March 2022.



                                                                                                          3
II. NATIONAL SECURITY OBJECTIVES OF THE DEPARTMENT
RELATING TO SPACE
Space plays a critical role in American security, prosperity, and way of life. Space-based
services support the world’s financial, information, and communications systems, scientific
discoveries, and environmental monitoring. Americans benefit from space-based services every
day. Increasingly, national and Department-level guidance and strategy reflect the centrality of
space to U.S. national security and to the U.S. economy, as well as the growing threats to the
domain.

2022 National Security Strategy
In the 2022 National Security Strategy (NSS), the Administration articulated its goal of a free,
open, prosperous, and secure international order. The most serious threat to this order is the
PRC, which possesses both the intention and increasingly the economic and military capability to
challenge the free and open order, leveraging coercive and other means that seek to overturn
longstanding international rules and norms to reshape the international order to favor its
authoritarianism. Russia remains an acute threat, as demonstrated by its unlawful and
unprovoked further invasion of Ukraine.
The 2022 NSS outlines three lines of effort to protect the free and open international order, in
which the United States will:
       ➢ Invest in the underlying sources and tools of American power and influence;

       ➢ Build the strongest possible coalition of nations to enhance our collective influence to
         shape the global strategic environment and to solve shared challenges; and

       ➢ Modernize and strengthen our military so it is equipped for the era of strategic
         competition with major powers.
Space plays a direct and indirect role in each of these lines of effort. The 2022 NSS directs the
United States to maintain its position as the world’s leader in space, from which the nation
derives substantial economic benefit, technological innovation, and critical services that are
shared broadly with the international community. In cooperation with allies and partners, the
United States will lead in strengthening global governance of space activities, which includes
developing norms of responsible behaviors, in order to preserve the safety, stability, security, and
long-term stability of the domain.
Space has also played a vital role in galvanizing collective action in response to international
crises. The Administration made extensive use of space-based intelligence to demonstrate
Russia’s intent to invade Ukraine in advance of attacks, expose and frustrate false flag
operations, and generate a unified response from the international community, which rapidly
enacted sanctions and other punitive measures.



                                                                                                   4
The 2022 NSS acknowledges the criticality of space-based services to national and homeland
security, necessitating increased resilience of new and existing U.S. space architectures – a
modernization objective that is vital to the overall combat credibility of the Joint Force. At the
same time, the 2022 NSS directs that the United States act as a responsible steward of the
domain and avoid destabilizing arms races.
2022 National Defense Strategy
The DoD’s priorities, as articulated in the 2022 National Defense Strategy (NDS), are:

       ➢ Defending the homeland, paced to the growing multi-domain threat posed by the
         PRC;

       ➢ Deterring strategic attacks against the United States, its Allies, and partners;

       ➢ Deterring aggression – while being prepared to prevail in conflict when necessary –
         prioritizing the PRC challenge in the Indo-Pacific region, then the Russia challenge in
         Europe; and

       ➢ Building a resilient Joint Force and defense ecosystem.
Each of the four NDS priorities requires and relies on the ability of the United States to operate
in space through competition, crisis, and conflict. Space is therefore a key node for integrated
deterrence – the cornerstone of the NDS – as deterrence strategies rely on combat credible
forces, which are underwritten by space-based capabilities.
U.S. space-based capabilities – including positioning, navigation, and timing, satellite
communications, missile warning and missile tracking (MW/MT), and other missions – are
critical to overall military effectiveness across all domains and therefore to successful homeland
defense, deterrence, and countering aggression. Likewise, the ISR support provided by space
capabilities is vital to identifying and exposing aggressive activity, deterring escalation, and
catalyzing international responses to crises.
The NDS also highlights the importance of partnering with the commercial sector as part of
integrated deterrence efforts. The Department is assessing how to increasingly leverage
commercial space services as one element of its broader approach to building resilience,
improving performance, and maintaining affordability. Commercial services and providers offer
innovative solutions across many mission areas, potentially at lower cost and with more rapid
development cycles.
2021 U.S. Space Priorities Framework
The U.S. Space Priorities Framework preceded both the 2022 NSS and NDS and was the Biden
Administration’s first key document to define national security space objectives for the
Department.
The U.S. Space Priorities Framework calls for the United States to:

                                                                                                     5
       ➢ Defend its national security interests from the growing scope and scale of space and
         counterspace threats, including through transitioning to a more resilient national
         security space posture and strengthening the ability to detect and attribute hostile acts
         in space.
       ➢ Take steps to protect and defend U.S. military forces from space-enabled threats.
       ➢ Leverage new commercial space capabilities and services and deepen integration of
         U.S. national security space capabilities and activities with allies and partners as part
         of the U.S. national security approach to mission assurance.
       ➢ Demonstrate leadership in the responsible use of space and stewardship of the space
         environment.
2020 Defense Space Strategy
Although the 2020 Defense Space Strategy (DSS) preceded the current NDS, it remains an
important element of the Department’s policy framework for national security space activities.
The 2020 DSS lays out four prioritized lines of effort:
       ➢ Build a comprehensive military advantage in space.

       ➢ Integrate military space power into national, joint, and combined operations.

       ➢ Shape the strategic environment.

       ➢ Cooperate with allies, partners, industry, and other U.S. Government departments and
         agencies.

These four lines of effort continue to guide the Department’s national security space initiatives.
Space is at the heart of integrating U.S. strategic and conventional capabilities, and U.S. space
capabilities are critical to overall military effectiveness across the entire Joint Force. The
Department is focused on shifting to a resilient-by-design architecture to assure space support to
the Joint Force.

U.S. Space Command (USSPACECOM) is leading integrated planning with other Combatant
Commands, allies, and partners; integrating joint and combined space scenarios and training
across the Joint Force; and developing joint warfighting requirements to overcome capability
gaps across the Military Services.

The Department is shaping the strategic environment to enhance domain stability, reduce the
potential for miscalculations, and ensure continued access to the domain for the United States
and its allies and partners. In coordination with the Department of State, DoD engages with
allies and partners to promote the responsible use of space.
Allies and partners are also key to U.S. mission assurance, and they provide an enduring strength
and asymmetric advantage that U.S. competitors cannot match. They are essential to integrated

                                                                                                     6
deterrence strategy, and the United States therefore must be able to share information, integrate,
plan, and operate with our most capable allies in the space domain.
The Department is reviewing the classification and disclosure policies of space-related
information to overcome barriers to integration with allies and partners, as well as to create
benefits across all four lines of effort. Appropriate updating of classification and disclosure
policies will allow for increased integration and synchronization across the Joint Force; reduce
barriers and costs of duplicative classification; enable more informed policy and budgetary
decisions; and facilitate more effective and transparent strategic communications.



III. DETERRING, RESPONDING TO, AND COUNTERING THREATS TO
THE SPACE OPERATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES AND ITS ALLIES
AND PARTNERS
The Joint Force depends on the availability of space-provided services to execute its missions
across the spectrum of competition, crisis, and conflict. U.S. Military Service force structures
assume continued access to space-based services. Space provides the U.S. military with
indications and warnings of threats or attacks, command and control of forces across the globe,
and monitoring of adversary activities. Competitors have seen U.S. military advantages
enhanced and enabled by space capabilities for more than three decades. Competitors therefore
seek to deny the U.S. ability to leverage space in crisis and conflict and are developing a range of
capabilities to do so.

DoD will defend our national security interests from the growing scope and scale of
counterspace threats. We will:

   ➢ Assure critical space-based missions by accelerating the transition to more resilient
     architectures and by protecting and defending critical systems against counterspace
     threats;

   ➢ Strengthen the ability to detect and attribute hostile acts in, from, and to space; and

   ➢ Protect the Joint Force from adversary hostile uses of space.

To do so, DoD will leverage a breadth of options across all operational domains to deter
aggression and, if deterrence fails, to prevail in conflict. As the complexity of the domain grows,
DoD must provide the President and SecDef with options to deliver operational and strategic
effects to achieve national objectives. DoD will balance the development, testing, and
employment of these capabilities with our need to maintain a stable and sustainable space
environment.




                                                                                                     7
Mission Assurance by Accelerating the Transition to More Resilient Architectures
The Department is prioritizing resilience as the primary means of denying adversaries the
benefits of attack in space and assuring the availability of U.S. space missions in competition,
crisis, and conflict. The significance of space-based capabilities to the conduct of modern
warfare, together with existing and emerging counterspace threats, demands a DoD space
architecture shift, where possible, from dependence on high-value, specialized satellites to
resilient-by-design architectures. Prioritizing the ability of space-based services to withstand,
fight through, and recover quickly from disruption ensures DoD can continue to support the Joint
Force and deny adversaries the information advantage that is critical to success in modern
warfare.
DoD can achieve resilience of space-based services through a range of approaches, including
disaggregation, distribution, diversification, proliferation, protection, and deception. The Joint
Force can employ these approaches individually or in combination for greater effect, dependent
on the specific architecture and mission.
    ➢ Disaggregation separates dissimilar capabilities into distinct platforms or payloads, such
      as separating tactical and strategic communications.

    ➢ Distribution uses multiple nodes, working together, to perform the same mission or
      functions to ensure no individual satellite or ground node is fundamental to the success of
      that mission.

    ➢ Diversification leverages alternative means to contribute to the same mission in multiple
      ways, using different platforms, different orbits, or systems and capabilities of civil,
      commercial, or international partners. An example would be the U.S. Joint Force
      leveraging both government and commercial satellite communications systems.

    ➢ Protection comprises active and passive measures to ensure space systems are able to
      provide a service in support of any operating environment or condition, such on-board
      jam protection and nuclear hardening.

    ➢ Proliferation deploys large numbers of the same platform, payload, or systems of the
      same types to perform the same mission.

    ➢ Deception comprises measures taken to confuse or mislead an adversary with respect to
      the location, capability, operational status, mission type, and/or robustness of a national
      security system or payload.2

The Department is developing strategies, concepts, and tactics necessary to conduct sustained
operations in a crisis or conflict and continues development of force designs in key functional

2
 “Space Domain Mission Assurance: A Resilience Taxonomy,” Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Homeland Defense & Global Security, September 2015,
https://policy.defense.gov/Portals/11/Space%20Policy/ResilienceTaxonomyWhitePaperFinal.pdf?ver=2016-12-27-
131828-623.

                                                                                                             8
areas. In accordance with Section 1602(b)(4) of the NDAA for FY 2022, the SecDef designated
the Chief of Space Operations (CSO) as the Force Design Architect for Space Systems of the
Armed Forces. Under this new construct, the CSO is the singular authority responsible for
presenting coordinated recommendations to the SecDef regarding force design options to satisfy
the space mission requirements of the entire Joint Force. In this role, the CSO is establishing
rigorous analytical processes for space system force designs that pursue resilience from the
ground up.
Resilience solutions vary by mission and are refined using high-fidelity modeling and
simulation, wargaming, and experimentation that capture current and future Joint Force needs,
concepts, threats, technological opportunities, and costing methods to ensure future space
capabilities outpace those of our adversaries. Space system force designs account for future
modernization plans and for key trade-offs that balance performance to meet warfighting needs,
resilience against counterspace threats, and affordability. The transition to resilient architectures
– both through new “resilient-by-design” architectures and additive solutions to existing
architectures – is underway.
The first capability area to be redeveloped through a resilient-by-design approach is MW/MT.
This effort assessed architectures designed to meet future warfighting performance needs,
establish resilience against modern military threats, and ensure cost parameters, resulting in
recommendations on numbers of satellites and diversifying capabilities across orbital regimes.
Ongoing force design studies include: fire control to address long-range threats; tactical ISR to
enable forward operations; a space data network to ensure data throughput for decision making
and battle management; and protect and defend operations to protect vital infrastructure and
space-based capabilities.
Cooperation with like-minded nations also contributes to the resilience of our architectures and
to our ability to deter aggression in space by broadening the systems upon which we rely for
space operations. The NDS calls on the Department to incorporate allies and partners at every
stage of defense planning in all domains – including space. DoD will cooperate with allies and
partners to develop and maintain a robust, interoperable space infrastructure to enable joint and
combined operations in all domains. We therefore must be able to integrate, plan, and operate
with our most capable allies in the space domain.
The Department must continue to remove barriers to collaboration, including classification and
disclosure policies, to ensure effective integration of combined space activities. DoD will ensure
interoperability with allied and partner systems is considered in all stages of system design,
acquisition, procurement, and use.
Mission Assurance by Protecting and Defending Critical Systems Against Counterspace
Threats
As in any domain, DoD will protect and defend U.S. national security interests in space. The
Department is developing a range of solutions across all domains that counter hostile uses of
space and protect and defend U.S. and, as directed, allied, partner, and commercial space
capabilities. The Department is focused on protecting the whole space architecture, including
ground nodes and networks, in addition to assets on orbit.

                                                                                                    9
Protection includes all measures taken to ensure friendly space systems perform as designed by
overcoming attempts to deny or manipulate them and by mitigating environmental hazards,
including terrestrial and space weather.3 Protection measures include electromagnetic spectrum
operations, movement and maneuver, and hardening. Cybersecurity also plays a key role in
improving the resilience of U.S. space architectures, and hardening networks against hostile
cyber operations is a priority effort.

Defensive space operations contribute to deterrence in space – thereby supporting deterrence
across all domains – by improving the mission assurance of critical space services that support
U.S. national security interests. Operations to protect and defend space systems can consist of all
active and passive measures taken to secure friendly space capabilities from attack, interference,
or hazards, and can apply to defense of any segment of a space system – space, link, or ground.
Active space defense can consist of actions taken to neutralize imminent counterspace threats to
friendly space forces and space capabilities. Passive space defense minimizes the effectiveness
of on-orbit and terrestrial threats.4

Detecting and Attributing Hostile Acts in, from, and to Space
Space domain awareness (SDA) encompasses the effective identification, characterization, and
understanding of any factor associated with the space domain that could affect space operations
and thereby affect the security, safety, economy, or environment of the Nation.5 The number of
satellites on orbit is rapidly growing. In 2022, space launch providers around the world
conducted a record 177 launches, a 31 percent increase from 2021. DoD currently tracks
approximately 47,900 objects in space, a 16 percent growth in objects from 2021 to 2022. Of
those objects, 7,100 are active payloads, a 37 percent increase from 2021 to 2022. Expended
rocket bodies, inactive satellites, and debris further congest the space environment.
The Department must be able to accurately and rapidly detect, track, and characterize space
assets and other space objects to safely conduct space operations and to effectively deter, and, if
necessary, counter and respond to hostile acts in space. In an increasingly dynamic and
congested space domain, SDA requires an integrated sensor system that leverages DoD, other
U.S. Government, and international and commercial partner services. Providing space operators
with relevant, timely data can help to prevent operational surprise and support efforts to protect
and defend space assets.
Protecting the Joint Force from Adversary Hostile Uses of Space
In addition to developing counterspace weapons to threaten U.S. use of space, China is
developing and rapidly growing its ability to leverage space to enhance its own combat power to
fight and win a modern military conflict. As described in the 2022 NDS, increasingly
sophisticated and proliferated space-based ISR networks and improved command and control


3
  Joint Publication 3-14, Space Operations, Change 1, October 2020, xii.
4
  Ibid, II-2 – II-3.
5
  Space Doctrine Note, Operations, January 2022, p. 15, https://media.defense.gov/2022/Feb/02/2002931717/-1/-
1/0/SDN%20OPERATIONS%2025%20JANUARY%202022.PDF, 21.

                                                                                                                10
systems increase the precision and accuracy of missile systems the PRC would employ to deter
and counter U.S. forward presence and operations, especially in the Western Pacific.
To preserve U.S. freedom of operations and support deterrence, the United States must be
prepared to deny adversaries the ability to utilize space capabilities and services to attack the
Joint Force and prevent the United States from advancing critical national security objectives.
The Department will leverage a breadth of options across all operational domains to do so.
As potential adversaries increase their use of space-based services to support their combat
capability, operations to deny hostile use of space could reduce an adversary’s ability to conduct
attacks against the United States and its allies and partners. Joint Force space operations could
deny an adversary’s space and counterspace capabilities and services using a variety of
reversible and irreversible means, reducing the effectiveness and lethality of adversary forces
across all domains. Operations to deny adversary hostile use of space could originate in any
domain and target on-orbit, ground, cyber, and/or link segments to reduce the full spectrum of an
adversary’s ability to exploit the space domain.6



IV. POLICY CHANGES AND FUNDING NECESSARY TO ACCOMPLISH
THE DEPARTMENT’S OBJECTIVES
POLICY
National Security Space Strategic Guidance
More than a decade has passed since the shift in the U.S. national security space posture from
considering space to be a support function to recognizing space as a distinct operational domain
of national military power. This transformation demanded enterprise-wide changes and new
guidance to adapt to the evolving strategic environment.
The 2011 National Security Space Strategy established the foundation for the path the national
security space community pursued through a decade of increased actors and activity in the
domain, and the 2018 National Strategy for Space affirmed the path forward that helped spur
reestablishment of the USSPACECOM in August 2019 and establishment of the USSF in
December 2019.
The National Space Policy released in December 2020 underscores the U.S. commitment to
leading in the responsible and constructive use of space for economic prosperity, scientific
achievement, and national security, including defending U.S. and allied and parnter interests in
space.




6
 Joint Publication 3-14, Space Operations, Change 1, October 2020, II-2; Space Capstone Publication, Spacepower,
June 2020, https://www.spaceforce.mil/Portals/1/Space%20Capstone%20Publication_10%20Aug%202020.pdf, 36;
Operations, 15.

                                                                                                             11
Leveraging existing and past national- and Department-level guidance, including the 2021 U.S.
Space Priorities Framework objectives captured in section II of this report, the Department has
conducted recent policy and funding analysis based on the following ends:

   ➢ Maintain the benefits derived by all from space by preserving stability in, access to, and
     freedom to operate in, from, and through the space domain.

   ➢ Deter hostile uses of space that threaten the national security interests of the United States
     and its allies and partners; if deterrence fails, be prepared to prevail in conflict.
DoD Directive 3100.10 Space Policy
Drawing from national-level guidance, DoD updated and reissued DoD Directive (DoDD)
3100.10, “Space Policy,” on August 30, 2022, establishing policy and assigning responsibilities
for space-related activities.
In recognition of the role space plays in underpinning multi-domain joint and combined military
operations to advance national security, DoDD 3100.10 directs the Department to preserve
access to and freedom to operate in the space domain. Preserving access to space means
protecting and defending U.S. use of space while ensuring the safety, stability, security, and
sustainability of the space domain.
Among the necessary means to ensure a safe, stable, sustainable, and accessible space domain is
upholding norms of safe and responsible behavior to reduce the potential for mishaps,
miscommunications, and misunderstandings. DoDD 3100.10 includes the SecDef’s Tenets of
Responsible Behavior in Space, issued in July 2021:
   ➢ Operate in, from, to, and through space with due regard to others and in a professional
     manner.

   ➢ Limit the creation of long-lived debris.

   ➢ Avoid creating harmful interference.

   ➢ Maintain safe separation and safe trajectory.

   ➢ Communicate and make notifications to enhance the safety and stability of the domain.
In February 2023, the SecDef approved USSPACECOM’s specific behaviors derived from these
tenets that provide more guidance to all DoD space operators on more specific ways to operate
responsibly in the space domain.
In addition to advancing and promoting responsible behavior in the space domain, ensuring
continued space support to the Joint Force necessitates that the Department increase mission
assurance through enhanced resilience, in particular for the most vulnerable critical space
architectures; conduct operations in, from, and to space; and deliver advanced space capabilities
to deter conflict and, if deterrence fails, to counter and defeat aggression.
                                                                                                12
FUNDING
The DoD FY 2024 budget requests the largest space budget ever of $33.3 billion, reflecting an
approximately 13 percent increase in space funding over the FY 2023 budget request as the
Department works to increasingly integrate space-based services across the Joint Force and
manage growing threats to and from the space domain, consistent with the guidance of the 2022
NDS. The FY 2024 budget request funds capabilities to accomplish the approach laid out in
section III of this report to:

   ➢ Assure our critical space-based missions;

   ➢ Strengthen our ability to detect and attribute hostile acts in, from, and to space; and,

   ➢ Protect the U.S. Joint Force from adversary hostile uses of space.

To increase the mission assurance of U.S. national security space, the FY 2024 budget request
supports the first resilient-by-design approach to space architectures. The budget request invests
$5.0 billion to develop new proliferated resilient MW/MT architectures, including next-
generation overhead persistent infrared space capabilities, and associated ground architectures
that will track an increased range of threats, including hypersonic and maneuverable weapons.
The FY 2024 budget request seeks to enhance the ability to preserve access to space and ensure
the Department can continue to provide critical space-based services to the Joint Force in crisis
and conflict.

To advance and expand the architectures of space-based sensors that provide indications and
warning of threats to space systems, the FY 2024 budget requests $481 million in ground and
space-based sensors, deep space radar, and ground-based optical system projects to improve the
capability and resilience of DoD SDA. The budget requests an additional $131 million to
produce highly accurate, rapidly available detection, tracking, and characterization of space
objects, regardless of their origin.
To protect the U.S. Joint Force from adversary hostile uses of space, the FY 2024 budget also
prioritizes research, development, test, and evaluation to ensure DoD can sharpen the edge of
national security space through future years and meet emerging threats while simultaneously
continuing to invest in near-term readiness.

V. NORMATIVE BEHAVIORS IN SPACE
Upholding norms of safe and responsible behavior reduces the potential for mishaps and
inadvertent escalation. In collaboration with the Department of State, the Department of Defense
is committed to promoting standards and norms that ensure the domain remains secure, stable,
and accessible. Steps such as sharing DoD’s Tenets of Responsible Behavior in Space contribute
to developing a shared understanding among nations of what constitutes safe and responsible
behaviors for all military space operators. The Department will continue to demonstrate
leadership in both the responsible use of space and stewardship of the space environment.


                                                                                                13
The existing space legal framework – which includes the four core space treaties, as well as the
United Nations Charter – has served the international community and U.S. national interests well
over many decades. However, as space activities evolve, the norms, rules, and principles that
guide outer space activities must also evolve. Therefore, voluntary, non-legally binding
guidelines and standards based on operational best practices can supplement these legal
obligations. For example, in April 2022, the United States committed to not conduct destructive,
DA-ASAT missile testing. A resolution calling on nations to adopt similar commitments was
adopted in the U.N. General Assembly in December 2022 with 155 nations voting in favor.
Additionally, to date, 13 states have made similar unilateral pledges not to conduct destructive
direct-ascent ASAT missile tests.
All actors in space should commit to responsible behavior to prevent potential mishaps,
including commercial entities and operators, many of which are playing an increasing role in
national security. For the United States, ensuring safe, responsible commercial activity in space
can and should be addressed through national regulatory means.



VI. COORDINATION WITH OTHER POLICY REVIEWS
The portfolio of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy (ASD Space Policy)
contains the Department’s strategic capabilities for integrated deterrence, including nuclear
weapons, cyber, and missile defense. Each of these areas are subject to periodic policy review
by the Department. Space-based missions are critical to nuclear deterrence and missile defense,
providing MW/MT, nuclear detonation detection, and secure strategic communications for
nuclear command and control. All analysis of space policies and posture are conducted within
the context of this broader portfolio and within the guidance provided by the 2022 NDS.




                                                                                               14
VII. ORGANIZATION AND SPACE DOCTRINE OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE
ORGANIZATION
DoDD 3100.10, updated in August 2022, provides a full compendium of DoD’s organization for
space, including the Department’s intelligence agencies. This report defers to that directive on
specific stakeholder roles and responsibilities.
A variety of mechanisms enable collaboration and coordination among space stakeholders across
the Department:
Space Acquisition Council
Congress established the Space Acquisition Council (SAC) to oversee, direct, and manage the
acquisition and integration of space systems and programs of the Armed Forces to ensure
integration across the national security space enterprise. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
for Space Acquisition and Integration, in addition to other responsibilities, chairs the SAC.
Other statutory members of the SAC are the Under Secretary of the Air Force, ASD Space
Policy, the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, the CSO, and the Commander of
USSPACECOM.
Space Warfighting Activities Group
ASD Space Policy chairs the Space Warfighting Activities Group, a body of DoD and
intelligence community entities that convenes to review upcoming sensitive space activities to
ensure a common operating picture and alignment on space warfighting policy and strategy.
Force Design Architect
The CSO, as the Force Design Architect for Space Systems of the Armed Forces, provides
capability area designs, including government reference architectures and transition plans to
facilitate DoD-wide space development, acquisition, and budget decisions. Associated studies
are inclusive of key stakeholders, including: the Joint Staff; Military Departments and Services;
Combatant Commands; the Office of the Director, Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation; the
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy; the Office of the Under Secretary of
Defense for Research & Engineering; and the Intelligence Community.
Acquisition and Integration
The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration has the statutory
responsibility to oversee all architecture and integration with respect to the acquisition of the
space systems and programs of the armed forces, including in support of the Chief of Space
Operations.
Joint Staff
As for all Military Services and domains, the Joint Staff establishes and approves joint
performance requirements for space capabilities that ensure interoperability, where appropriate,

                                                                                                 15
between and among joint military space capabilities, allies, and partners and that are necessary to
fulfill performance requirements for any existing or proposed space capability that the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff determines is needed. In addition to other responsibilities as
described in DoDD 3100.10, the Joint Staff identifies new joint military space capabilities based
on advances in technology and concepts of operation, and, in coordination with the Combatant
Commanders and the Secretaries of the Military Departments, ensures space-related objectives
are incorporated in joint force training.
Integrated Acquisition Portfolio Review
Established in May 2021, the Integrated Acquisition Portfolio Review (IAPR) is chaired by the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment to enable visibility of risks,
dependencies, and opportunities utilizing an integrated, portfolio and systems-based process.
This tool identifies interdependencies and critical strengths in order to strengthen
synchronization of warfighting concepts, technologies, requirements, and program execution to
inform enterprise decisions and enable end-to-end mission capability. The IAPR process ensures
space acquisition decisions are assessed at the enterprise level and with an all-domain operations
perspective. The IAPRs occur on an annual basis and leverage the work the Joint Staff
accomplishes in the complementary Capability Portfolio Management Review process.
DOCTRINE
Joint Space Doctrine
Joint space doctrine primarily takes the form of JP 3-14, Joint Space Operations. JP 3-14
explains the joint space role in planning and operations in addition to providing an understanding
of space terminology.
Service Doctrine
Space Service doctrine provides Military Services with approaches to conduct space planning
and operations within their respective Military Services. USSF Delta 10 is rapidly developing a
comprehensive library of Space Force Service Doctrine. Other Military Services develop and
maintain Military Service-level space doctrine, for example: The Air Force’s AFDP 3-14
(Counterspace Operations), the Army’s FM 3-14 (Army Space Operations), and the Navy’s
NTTP 3.14 (Navy Space Tactics).



VIII. SPACE SYSTEMS AND ARCHITECTURES TO IMPLEMENT THE
DEPARTMENT’S POLICY
To achieve objectives described in this report and to contribute to integrated deterrence in
accordance with the 2022 NDS, Commander, USSPACECOM identified five capability
priorities:




                                                                                                16
➢ Resilient, Timely Space Command and Control

      ➢ An increasingly dynamic space environment requires a resilient command and
          control (C2) architecture to synchronize space effects for operations in the
          contested space environment and as a critical enabler to terrestrial maneuver
          forces. Rapid and robust communication among space assets, space operators,
          and partner combatant commands enables decisive action and is therefore key
          to deterring and defeating hostile action in space and terrestrially.

➢ Integrated Space Fires and Protection Capabilities

      ➢ DoD must have the infrastructure to deter aggression and protect U.S. space
          capabilities from attack. Resilience is fundamental, but resilience is not
          sufficient alone to deter all attacks or assure U.S. space-based services relative
          to the impact of their loss or degradation. DoD requires joint military space
          capabilities to protect and defend U.S., and as directed, allied, partner, and
          commercial space assets and to protect the Joint Force, allies, and partners
          from adversary hostile uses of space.

➢ Modernized, Agile Electronic Warfare Architecture

      ➢ Denial of adversary freedom of action in the Electromagnetic Spectrum
          (EMS) requires an integrated and distributed capability to support the EMS
          Superiority strategy. Disparate, mobile U.S. and partner systems, with
          minimal reliance on manpower, will ensure architectural resilience and
          maximize effectiveness against cunning adversaries.

➢ Enhanced Battlespace Awareness for Space Warfare

      ➢ Near-real time, comprehensive understanding of the congested and complex
          space operational environment requires more accurate, robust, resilient, and
          timely space domain awareness and operational intelligence data from all
          interoperable sensors to produce highly accurate, rapidly available detection,
          tracking, and characterization of space objects, regardless of their origin.
          Current space domain awareness systems are stovepiped and disaggregated.
          USSPACECOM, the Missile Defense Agency, and the USSF are partnering to
          enhance sensor integration into a C2 program.

➢ Space Systems Cyber Defense

      ➢ Effective response to cyber attacks against space and space support
          mission systems demands a robust ability to detect, track, and defend.
          USSPACECOM must maintain the ability to provide critical space

                                                                                         17
capabilities globally in all phases of conflict and therefore requires
persistent detection and monitoring of threat activity. USSPACECOM is
partnering with Services and Agencies to provide that robust defense and
ensure future capability development efforts remain secure.




                                                                           18
