CUI
This page left intentionally blank.
Space plays a critical role in American security and prosperity, and it is essential to the Department
of Defense. Our men and women in harm’s way rely on space-based services every single day to
execute their missions. As the Department continues to prioritize the resilience of our national
security space architecture in the face of new threats, we owe it to the Joint Force and the American
people to leverage all tools available. The rapidly growing commercial space sector, highlighted
in the 2022 National Defense Strategy, presents an opportunity for the Department that we cannot
overlook.

The 2024 DoD Commercial Space Integration Strategy, the first for the Department, provides my
vision for prioritizing and aligning efforts to integrate commercial solutions into our national
security space architecture. It outlines the foundational principles, priorities, and approaches to
guide the Department in this effort to enhance space mission assurance across the spectrum of
conflict.

Realizing this vision is a task for every space stakeholder across the Department. Integrating
commercial solutions, as opposed to merely augmenting existing government systems, will require
a shift in approach within the Department. Leaders at all levels need to be aware of and work to
eliminate the structural, procedural, and cultural barriers to overcoming legacy practices and
preconceived notions of how the commercial sector can support national security. Only by
proactively integrating commercial solutions can the Department be positioned to leverage them
in crisis or conflict.

I am confident that, together, we will seize this moment to support integrated deterrence and
contribute to a safe, secure, stable, and sustainable space domain.




                                                             DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | I
                                                 This page left intentionally blank.




DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | II
                                                  CUI


I. INTRODUCTION
The commercial space sector’s innovative capabilities, scalable production, and rapid technology
refresh rates provide pathways to enhance the resilience of national security space architectures and
strengthen deterrence. This DoD Commercial Space Integration Strategy, in line with the National
Security Strategy and the 2022 National Defense Strategy, seeks to align Department efforts and
drive more effective integration of commercial space solutions into national security space
architectures. Such integration will help deny adversaries the benefits of attacks against national
security space systems and contribute to a safe, secure, stable, and sustainable space domain.

Deeper integration of commercial space solutions represents a conceptual shift away from legacy
practices in which the Department has relied on bespoke, DoD-specific capabilities and limited the
use of commercial solutions. Given the expansion of the commercial space sector and the
proliferation of space capabilities, the Department will benefit by making commercial solutions
integral—and not just supplementary—to national security space architectures.

The Department has successfully integrated commercial solutions in other domains for a limited
number of mission areas. In the air and maritime domains, the U.S. Government established
contractual mechanisms through the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) and the Voluntary Intermodal
Sealift Agreement (VISA), respectively, to ensure logistics support from commercial operators during
crises. The Department should develop mechanisms that similarly enable integration of commercial
space in order to build resilience across the full range of space mission areas.

There is inherent risk in commercial space integration. Purchasing commercial solutions instead of
designing purpose-built government systems may present trade-offs between the speed of fielding a
capability and the security of that system. But the Department also recognizes there is risk in not
integrating commercial solutions and in failing to capitalize on the commercial sector's technological
innovation and speed. To integrate commercial space solutions, the Department will work with
commercial entities to mitigate risk as necessary and accept risk where appropriate.

This strategy identifies four top-level priorities that the Department will pursue to maximize the
benefits of integrating commercial space solutions. First, we will ensure access to commercial space
solutions across the spectrum of conflict. Second, we will achieve integration prior to crisis. Third, we
will establish security conditions that promote integration. Fourth, we will support the development
of new commercial space solutions.

For the purposes of this strategy, the “commercial sector” refers to individuals, companies, and
organizations that produce solutions for commercial markets, that bear a significant portion of the
investment risk and responsibility, that operate in accordance with commercial market incentives for
controlling costs and optimizing return on investment, and that have the legal capacity to offer those
solutions. “Commercial space solutions” refers to systems, capabilities, or services offered by the
commercial sector. “Commercial integration” refers to the incorporation of commercial space
solutions into U.S. defense planning, operations, missions, and architectures.




                                                               DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | I
II. PRINCIPLES
The Department will adhere to four foundational principles to guide its decision making to ensure that
commercial solutions are integrated into national security space architectures in an effective,
sustainable, and strategic manner: balance, interoperability, resilience, and responsible conduct.




                               BALANCE
                                    The Department will seek an appropriate balance of government
                                    and commercial solutions for each mission area while avoiding
                                    overreliance on any single provider or solution.


                               INTEROPERABILITY
                                    Military standards and procedures should strengthen
                                    interoperability between government and commercial solutions
                                    without stifling commercial sector innovation, speed, or scale.
                                    Wherever appropriate, the Department will consider adopting
                                    commercial standards and interfaces for future purpose-built
                                    systems to facilitate commercial integration.


                               RESILIENCE
                                    The Department will prioritize resilience in its national security
                                    architectures. Integrating commercial space solutions will
                                    strengthen resilience by increasing the number of commercial
                                    providers, diversifying supply chains, and expanding the variety
                                    and number of solutions the Department can employ. Commercial
                                    solutions leveraged by the Department must be resilient
                                    themselves, particularly against cyber threats.


                               RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT
                                    The Department will continue to act in accordance with
                                    international norms and standards and its Tenets of Responsible
                                    Behavior in Space. As always, the Department will also uphold its
                                    longstanding commitment to ethical conduct in working with the
                                    commercial sector.




DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 2
III. PRIORITIES & APPROACHES
The Department will integrate commercial space solutions to enhance space mission assurance
across the spectrum of conflict. Integration efforts will promote a resilient space architecture to
support the Joint Force across all domains. To maximize the potential benefits of integrating
commercial solutions, the Department will pursue four key priorities: (1) Ensure access to commercial
space solutions across the spectrum of conflict; (2) Achieve integration of commercial space solutions
prior to crisis; (3) Establish security conditions for integration of commercial space solutions; and
(4) Support the development of new commercial space solutions for use by the Joint Force.

1. Ensure Access to Commercial Solutions Across the Spectrum of Conflict: The Department will have full
   confidence that commercial solutions will be available when needed. This includes being able to
   surge commercial capacity to meet military requirements and capability needs across the
   spectrum of conflict.

        a. Approach: The Department will use contracts and other agreements as the formal
           mechanisms to ensure access to commercial solutions across the spectrum of conflict
           and mission areas. Contracts and other agreements will address the cyber, data, and
           supply chain security requirements that commercial entities will need to meet to work
           with the Department. As necessary, contracts will enable prioritization of Department
           requirements and capability needs over other commercial clients in specific situations.

2. Achieve Integration Prior to Crisis: To seamlessly utilize integrated commercial space solutions
   during crisis and conflict, the Department will integrate solutions during peacetime. This
   integration of commercial space solutions will extend to planning and training activities and
   support day-to-day operations. The Department will continue to work with the Intelligence
   Community, allies, and partners to integrate commercial solutions into shared architectures.

        a. Approach: The Department will incorporate commercial space solutions into wargames,
           tabletop exercises, and training exercises to test technology and to develop and hone
           tactics and concepts. Robust relationships between the Department and commercial
           entities will facilitate mutual understanding of interests, intent, and solutions. These lines
           of communication will also help commercial capabilities employ robust cyber, data, and
           supply chain security measures to mitigate risk and vulnerabilities, follow and bolster
           norms for space operations, and share information reciprocally with the Department.
           Regular engagement with the commercial sector will improve the Department’s
           understanding of available commercial solutions and the opportunities for integration.

3. Establish the Security Conditions to Integrate Commercial Space Solutions: The Department will promote
   a safe and secure operational space domain and, as appropriate, mitigate risks to commercial
   space actors inherent in supporting national security space operations.

        a. Approach: The Department will leverage a range of tools across all domains to deter
           aggression against and defeat threats to U.S. national security space interests, including
           all space segments and, where appropriate, commercial space solutions. In appropriate
           circumstances, the use of military force to protect and defend commercial assets could
           be directed. In general, the Department will promote the security of commercial solutions

                                                              DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 3
             through three lines of effort: norms and standards, threat information sharing, and
             financial protection mechanisms.

           i. Norms and Standards: The Department will promote norms and standards to foster a
              safe operating environment for all space actors. Internationally agreed upon norms and
              standards create a shared understanding of what constitutes responsible behavior and
              reduce the risk of misperceptions and miscalculations that could lead to crisis and
              conflict. The Department’s Tenets of Responsible Behavior in Space provide a baseline
              from which to operate and to develop new best practices, norms, and standards for U.S.
              national security space operations as necessary. The Department will continue to
              support efforts by the Department of State in multilateral fora to develop and implement
              best practices, standards, and norms of behavior for the space domain.

           ii. Threat Information Sharing: The Department will advance threat information sharing
               with the commercial space sector. Timely dissemination of actionable threat
               information is critical to the commercial sector’s ability to increase resilience and
               mitigate threats, and it is therefore foundational to successful integration of commercial
               space solutions. Information sharing will include space domain awareness and
               cybersecurity threat information at multiple classification levels. The Department will
               work to mitigate barriers including overclassification, clearance processes, and cleared
               facility access to establish scalable procedures for unclassified communications with
               the commercial space sector.

          iii. Financial Protection: Commercial entities employing solutions in support of military
               operations accept risk. Traditional commercial insurance, commercial war-risk
               insurance, U.S. Government-provided insurance, and indemnification as defined in
               statute are all possible financial protection tools to mitigate that risk. Definitions of
               these financial protection tools can be found in Annex A. U.S. government provided
               insurance is statutorily available for the air and maritime domains but is not yet
               available for the space domain. The Department will evaluate gaps in protection from
               commercial insurance providers, the conditions under which U.S. Government-provided
               insurance would be needed for the space domain, and whether those conditions have
               been met.

4. Support the Development of New Commercial Space Solutions for Use by the Joint Force: Harnessing the
   speed and innovation of the commercial space sector is not only a function of integrating existing
   commercial solutions but also ensuring that emerging solutions can be brought to market. The
   Department will continue to seek out emerging technologies in the commercial space sector that
   have the potential to support the Joint Force.

        a. Approach: The Department will use the full range of available financial, contractual, and
           policy tools to rapidly field and scale commercial technology, attract private investment
           and commercial lenders, assist in clearing regulatory hurdles where national security
           imperatives are present, and ultimately bring new commercial solutions to the warfighter
           at speed. These efforts will leverage the Department’s expertise in critical technologies,
           capability gaps, and U.S. government research and development efforts. In keeping with
           the Department’s commitment to ethical conduct, the Department will work to protect the
           intellectual property of integrated commercial solutions.



DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 4
IV. MISSION AREAS
There are currently 13 mission areas for national security space: Combat Power Projection; Command
and Control (C2); Cyberspace Operations; Electromagnetic Warfare (EW); Environmental Monitoring
(EM); Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR); Missile Warning (MW); Nuclear
Detonation Detection (NUDET); Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT); Space Access, Mobility, and
Logistics (SAML); Satellite Communications (SATCOM); Space Domain Awareness (SDA); and
Spacecraft Operations. Each mission area is composed of a range of distinct operational and
technical functions that must be performed to provide capability to the Joint Force.

The Department will seek to integrate commercial space solutions for all mission areas where these
solutions can enhance resilience and add capability without imposing unacceptable risk, while also
maintaining U.S. Government responsibility for certain critical national security functions. The
integration of commercial space solutions will vary by mission area based on assessments of the
functions that must be performed, the commercial solutions available to perform those functions,
and the ability of those commercial solutions to meet the appropriate requirements and capability
needs for mission assurance.

The Department will adopt three categories for organizing the integration of commercial space
solutions into national security space architectures. Mission areas may shift between categories over
time as commercial space capabilities mature and military requirements and capability needs evolve.
However, nothing about the categorization precludes integrating commercial space solutions as
opportunities arise for any mission area. The Department will regularly evaluate the national security
space mission areas and their corresponding functions to identify opportunities for commercial space
solutions to contribute. Below is a description of each category and the mission areas that currently
fall within them.

  ►   Government Primary Mission Areas: Within this category, a preponderance of functions must
      be performed by the government, while a select few could be performed by the commercial
      sector. Government systems supporting these mission areas generally have significant
      technological and functional differences when compared to commercial sector offerings and
      contain features that may lack a definitive commercial market. The following mission areas
      currently fall under the Government Primary category: combat power projection; C2 (to
      include NC3); EW; NUDET; MW; and PNT.

  ►   Hybrid Mission Areas: Within this category, some functions must be performed by the
      government while others could be performed by the commercial sector. The commercial
      sector is well suited to perform functions within these mission areas, and the Department
      will integrate a mix of government and commercial owned and operated systems. The
      following mission areas currently fall under the Hybrid category: cyberspace operations;
      SATCOM; spacecraft operations; ISR; SDA; and EM.

  ►   Commercial Primary Mission Areas: Within this category, the preponderance of functions
      within these mission areas could be performed by the commercial sector, while a limited
      number of functions must be performed by the government. Commercial space solutions
      performing functions within these mission areas have demonstrated technological maturity
      and met the Department’s requirements and capability needs for mission assurance. The
      following mission area currently falls under this category: SAML. Emerging commercially-
      developed mission areas, such as in-space servicing, assembly, and manufacturing (ISAM),
      may provide additional opportunities in the future to support the warfighter.

                                                            DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 5
V. CONCLUSION
The Department’s ability to integrate commercial space solutions into national security space
missions and architectures is critical to enhancing U.S. resilience and strengthening deterrence in
the 21st century. This integration will help maintain our technological edge, deny adversaries the
benefits of attacks against national security space systems, and contribute to a safe, secure, stable,
and sustainable space domain. This DoD Commercial Space Integration Strategy provides strategic
guidance to the Department to ensure it can fully seize the available opportunities to work with
commercial entities to achieve these ends.




DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 6
ANNEX A FINANCIAL PROTECTIONS AGAINST RISKS
Current possibilities for financial protection are described below, and have the following meanings
solely for this Department of Defense Commercial Space Integration Strategy:

Commercial Insurance: Insurance is a contract, referred to as a policy, in which a policyholder receives
financial protection or reimbursement against losses from an insurance company. Space companies
primarily receive property and casualty protection through commercial insurance. Space commercial
insurance can cover launch, satellite operations, or other liability risk factors for a commercial
enterprise. War-risk is typically excluded from coverage.

Commercial War-Risk Insurance: War-risk insurance is coverage provided for losses resulting from
events such as war, invasions, insurrections, riots, strikes, and terrorism. War-risk insurance is
generally available through a supplemental clause to an existing standard policy or as a separate
policy. Supplemental clauses are generally limited in scope.

U.S. Government-Provided Insurance: An arrangement whereby the U.S. Government offers certain levels
of insurance, including against war risks, that are typically excluded from coverage on commercial
insurance policies or for which commercial coverage is not available on reasonable terms. Such
insurance is intended to fill a well understood gap in commercially available insurance. The U.S.
Government provides insurance in both air and maritime domains, pursuant to statutory authority.
Statutory authority for this coverage does not currently extend to the space domain. New statutory
authority would be required to extend war-risk insurance coverage to commercial space entities.

Indemnification: The payment for damages suffered as a result of performance of a contract in support
of the Department of Defense pursuant to Public Law 85-804. The damage must be caused by
“unusually hazardous or nuclear risks.” Indemnification use is approved on a case-by-case basis and
is only compensated to the extent the claim, loss, or damage is not otherwise covered. Within the
Department of the Air Force, indemnification has been used mostly with respect to space launch and
nuclear activities given the unique risks associated with those activities.




                                                              DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 7
                                            This page left intentionally blank.




DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 8
DOD COMMERCIAL SPACE INTEGRATION STRATEGY | 2
