EUROPEAN
                              COMMISSION




                                                      Brussels, 4.6.2025
                                                      C(2025) 3491 final

                                                      ANNEX




                                            ANNEX

                                             to the

                                     Commisison Decision

       recognising certain critical raw material projects located in third countries and in
     overseas countries or territories as Strategic Projects under Regulation (EU) 2024/1252
                         of the European Parliament and of the Council




EN                                                                                             EN
                                             ANNEX
                              LIST OF STRATEGIC PROJECTS


     (1)    Balakhivka Graphite Deposit is an ongoing extraction project in Ukraine. The project
            promoted by Pobuzhzhya’s Development LLC aims to contribute to the supply of
            graphite (battery grade).
     (2)    CaledoNi is an ongoing processing project in New Caledonia. The project promoted
            by Société Le Nickel aims to contribute to the supply of nickel (battery grade).
     (3)    Norgraph a/s and Greenland Graphite a/s is an ongoing integrated extraction and
            processing project in Norway (Norgraph a/s) and Greenland (Greenland Graphite
            a/s). The project promoted by GreenRoc Strategic Materials Plc aims to contribute to
            the supply of graphite (battery grade).
     (4)    Integrated Dumont Nickel Project is an ongoing extraction project in Canada. The
            project promoted by Magneto Investments Limited Partnership aims to contribute to
            the supply of nickel (battery grade) and cobalt.
     (5)    Jadar is an ongoing extraction project in Serbia. The project promoted by Rio Tinto
            via the local entity Rio Sava Exploration doo aims to contribute to the supply of
            lithium (battery grade) and boron (metallurgy grade).
     (6)    Kobaloni Energy Zambia Ltd is an ongoing processing project in Zambia. The
            project promoted by Kobaloni Energy Zambia Limited aims to contribute to the
            supply of cobalt.
     (7)    Maniry Graphite Mine Project is an ongoing extraction project in Madagascar. The
            project promoted by Evion Group NL aims to contribute to the supply of graphite
            (battery grade).
     (8)    Nussir is an ongoing extraction project in Norway. The project promoted by Nussir
            ASA aims to contribute to the supply of copper.
     (9)    São Miguel Paulista (SMP) Nickel and Cobalt Refinery Restart Project is an ongoing
            processing project in Brazil. The project promoted by Jervois Brasil Metalurgia Ltda.
            aims to contribute to the supply of nickel (battery grade) and cobalt.
     (10)   Sarytogan Graphite Project is an ongoing extraction project in Kazakhstan. The
            project promoted by Sarytogan Graphite Limited aims to contribute to the supply of
            graphite (battery grade).
     (11)   Songwe Hill Rare Earths is an ongoing extraction project in Malawi. The project
            promoted by Mkango Resources Limited aims to contribute to the supply of rare
            earth elements for magnets.
     (12)   Tungsten West is an ongoing extraction project in the United Kingdom. The project
            promoted by Tungsten West PLC aims to contribute to the supply of tungsten.
     (13)   Zandkopsdrift is an ongoing extraction project in South Africa. The project promoted
            by Frontier Rare Earths Limited aims to contribute to the supply of rare earth
            elements for magnets and manganese (battery grade).




EN                                               1                                                  EN