NASA
Office of Inspector General

NASA’s Readiness for the Artemis II
Crewed Mission to Lunar Orbit




May 1, 2024                       IG-24-011
                                         Office of Inspector General
To report fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement, contact the NASA OIG Hotline at 800-424-9183 or 800-535-8134 (TDD) or
visit https://oig.nasa.gov/hotline.html. You can also write to NASA Inspector General, P.O. Box 23089, L’Enfant Plaza Station,
Washington, D.C. 20026. The identity of each writer and caller can be kept confidential, upon request, to the extent permitted by law.

To suggest ideas or request future audits, contact the Assistant Inspector General for Audits at https://oig.nasa.gov/aboutAll.html.
RESULTS IN BRIEF
NASA's Readiness for the Artemis II Crewed Mission to
Lunar Orbit
May 1, 2024                                                      IG-24-011 (A-23-07-00-HED)



WHY WE PERFORMED THIS AUDIT
With the Artemis campaign, NASA intends to return humans to the Moon and build a sustainable lunar presence as a
foundation for human exploration of Mars. The uncrewed Artemis I test flight was completed in December 2022 and
was a significant achievement for the Agency, providing important data and lessons learned from the testing of hardware,
software, processes, and teams that will prepare NASA for future Artemis missions. The Artemis II crewed test flight
aims to return humans to lunar orbit for the first time in more than 50 years and send its four crew members farther
into space than any human has ever gone. Like Artemis I, the Artemis II mission will utilize the Space Launch System
(SLS), a two-stage, heavy-lift rocket that will launch the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion) capsule into space
from the Mobile Launcher 1 (ML-1) at Kennedy Space Center. By September 2025, the planned launch date for Artemis II,
NASA will have spent more than $55 billion on the SLS, Orion, and Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) programs.

Given the high stakes of the first crewed flight, the Agency is working to identify and mitigate any risks and challenges to
ensure the safe return of the Artemis II crew and safeguard NASA’s significant investment in Artemis vehicles and systems.
In particular, the Agency must address the risks identified in the Artemis I Post-Flight Assessment Review, execute planned
modifications and upgrades required to support the Artemis II astronauts, and complete stacking and testing of the
integrated SLS and Orion. In light of ongoing work to address issues with the Orion spacecraft, in January 2024, the Agency
announced that it would push the Artemis II launch date from November 2024 to September 2025.

In this audit, we examined NASA’s readiness for the Artemis II crewed mission to lunar orbit. To complete this work, we
conducted a site visit at Kennedy Space Center and interviewed officials with the Exploration Systems Development
Mission Directorate; SLS, Orion, EGS, and Space Communications and Navigation programs; and other technical experts
and stakeholders. To determine the extent to which Artemis I met its objectives, we reviewed key documents to
evaluate mission performance as well as NASA’s mission coverage and preliminary flight reviews.



WHAT WE FOUND
As a test flight, Artemis I was used to examine how the integrated SLS and Orion and associated systems performed in
their intended environment, allowing the Agency to confidently mitigate risks, certify system designs, and validate
mission capabilities for future missions in the Artemis campaign. To this end, the Artemis I test flight revealed critical
issues that need to be addressed before placing crew on the Artemis II mission. In particular, the test flight revealed
anomalies with the Orion heat shield, separation bolts, and power distribution that pose significant risks to the safety of
the crew. Resolution of these anomalies is among the most significant factors impacting NASA’s readiness for Artemis II.
To its credit, the Agency is taking action to address these issues.

Specifically, NASA identified more than 100 locations where ablative thermal protective material from Orion’s heat
shield wore away differently than expected during reentry into Earth’s atmosphere. Engineers are concurrently
investigating ways to mitigate the char loss by modifying the heat shield’s design or altering Orion’s reentry trajectory.
In addition, post-flight inspections of the Crew Module/Service Module separation bolts revealed unexpected melting
and erosion that created a gap leading to increased heating inside the bolt. To mitigate the issue for Artemis II, the
Orion Program made minor modifications to the separation bolt design and added additional thermal protective barrier
material in the bolt gaps. NASA also recorded 24 instances of power distribution anomalies in Orion’s Electrical Power
System. While NASA has determined that radiation was the root cause and is making software changes and developing
operational workarounds for Artemis II, without a permanent hardware fix, there is increased risk that further power
distribution anomalies could lead to a loss of redundancy, inadequate power, and potential loss of vehicle propulsion and
pressurization. Moreover, like with any engineering system, without understanding the residual effects of introducing
design and operational changes, it will be difficult for the Agency to ensure that the mitigations or hardware changes
adopted will effectively reduce the risks to astronaut safety.

Beyond the Orion anomalies, the Artemis I launch-induced environment caused greater than expected damage to ML-1
elevators, electrical equipment, enclosure panel doors, and pneumatic tubing, requiring extensive repairs that will cost
more than $26 million, roughly 5 times more than the $5 million the EGS Program had originally set aside for post-
Artemis I launch repairs. Additionally, a loss of in-flight communications revealed hardware and process issues with the
Deep Space Network that can largely be attributed to maintenance deferrals and deterioration of hardware, which have
been long-standing issues for the network. NASA has begun taking corrective actions to mitigate the issues that
impacted Artemis I communications. Finally, we identified missed opportunities for data collection as a result of
imagery issues, failure to recover jettisoned hardware after landing, and inaccessible telemetry data that have impacted
NASA’s ability to fully evaluate and address certain launch, landing, and recovery risks.

In addition to addressing the technical issues and risks discovered during the Artemis I test flight, NASA has further work
and testing that it must complete to safely return humans to lunar orbit. NASA’s planned work for Artemis II includes
upgrades and modifications to the SLS, Orion, and ground facilities. Although NASA is making progress, verification and
validation testing for some of these upgrades and modifications is taking longer than expected. Furthermore, during recent
qualification and acceptance testing of Orion’s circuitry and Crew Module batteries, NASA discovered hardware defects
that increase crew safety risks. Regarding the circuitry issues, NASA is working to make modifications to hardware in
difficult-to-access locations inside the already assembled Orion spacecraft and perform additional tests. The investigation
into the battery issues is in the early stages, and NASA has not yet identified a resolution.

While NASA’s decision to push the Artemis II launch date will provide the Agency with more time to prepare for the first
crewed mission, NASA will need to balance its time frame for corrective actions with the start of stacking the components
of the SLS and Orion on the ML-1. Once stacking of the integrated systems begins, NASA must carefully monitor and track
key Artemis II hardware, such as the SLS solid rocket boosters, that have a limited operating life before requiring servicing
or replacement. Premature stacking could create risk of further cost increases and additional schedule delays.



WHAT WE RECOMMENDED
To ensure the safety of the crewed Artemis II mission, we recommended the Associate Administrator for Exploration
Systems Development Mission Directorate: (1) ensure the root cause of Orion heat shield char liberation is well understood
prior to launch of the Artemis II mission; (2) conduct analysis of Orion separation bolts using updated models that account
for char loss, design modifications, and operational changes to Orion prior to launch of the Artemis II mission; (3) require
EGS conduct additional verification and validation for launch imagery equipment prior to launch attempts should launch
conditions change; (4) reexamine procedures to better ensure recovery of Orion jettisoned hardware for the Artemis II
mission; (5) develop a corrective action plan to mitigate or prevent the recurrence of uninterpretable Orion telemetry data
for the Artemis II mission; and (6) establish a course of action and timeline for individual Artemis system design changes
before beginning integrated system assembly stacking operations.

We provided a draft of this report to NASA management who concurred
with our recommendations and described planned actions to address them.
We consider the proposed actions responsive and will close the                     For more information on the NASA
                                                                                   Office of Inspector General and to
recommendations upon completion and verification. While the Agency
                                                                                   view this and other reports visit
noted that its planned actions have been completed for Recommendations
                                                                                   https://oig.nasa.gov/.
4, 5, and 6, we were not provided evidence of these actions prior to
issuance of this report.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction......................................................................................................................................... 1
   Background ............................................................................................................................................... 1
Artemis I Test Flight Revealed Critical Issues That NASA Is Working to Address Before the
Artemis II Mission ................................................................................................................................ 8
   Orion Anomalies Pose Significant Safety Risks to the Crew ..................................................................... 8
   Greater than Expected Launch Damage Necessitates Mobile Launcher 1 Repairs
   and Improvements .................................................................................................................................. 12
   In-Flight Communication Losses Underscore the Importance of Maintaining the Deep
   Space Network ........................................................................................................................................ 16
   Missed Data Collection Opportunities Extend Known Risks to Future Crewed Missions....................... 18
Significant Upgrades, Modifications, Testing, and Integration Activities Remain, Delaying the
Artemis II Launch Date by Almost One Year ....................................................................................... 22
   NASA Is Making Planned Artemis II Upgrades and Modifications in Support of Adding Crew,
   but Significant Testing Remains .............................................................................................................. 22
   Issues Discovered During Qualification and Acceptance Testing of Key Orion Components Led
   to Decision to Delay Artemis II ................................................................................................................ 24
   Premature Stacking Could Create Risk of Cost Increases and Additional Schedule Delays.................... 25
Conclusion ......................................................................................................................................... 27
Recommendations ............................................................................................................................. 28
Appendix A: Scope and Methodology ................................................................................................ 30
Appendix B: Management’s Comments ............................................................................................. 32
Appendix C: Report Distribution ........................................................................................................ 37




                                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General                    IG-24-011 i
Acronyms
DSN     Deep Space Network
ECLSS   Environmental Control and Life Support System
ECS     Environmental Control System
EGS     Exploration Ground Systems
ESDMD   Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate
Hz      hertz
ICPS    Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage
LOLI    limited operating life item
ML-1    Mobile Launcher 1
NSN     Near Space Network
OIG     Office of Inspector General
PCA     Private Cloud Appliance
PCDU    Power Conditioning and Distribution Unit
PFAR    Post-Flight Assessment Review
SCaN    Space Communications and Navigation
SLS     Space Launch System
VAB     Vehicle Assembly Building




                                              NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 ii
INTRODUCTION

With the Artemis campaign, NASA intends to return humans to the Moon and build a sustainable lunar
presence as a foundation for human exploration of Mars. After more than a decade of preparation and
several delays, the first mission—Artemis I—was completed in December 2022 and served as the first
and only integrated uncrewed test flight of NASA’s deep space exploration systems. Artemis I was a
significant achievement for NASA, providing important data and lessons learned from the testing of
hardware, software, processes, and teams that will help prepare the Agency for future Artemis missions.

Currently in preparation, Artemis II aims to return humans to lunar orbit for the first time in more than
50 years and send its four crew members farther into space than any human has ever gone. Like
Artemis I, the Artemis II mission will utilize the Space Launch System (SLS), a two-stage, heavy-lift rocket
that will launch the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion) capsule into space from the Exploration
Ground Systems’ (EGS) launch facilities. However, before NASA can launch Artemis II, the Agency must
address the risks identified in the Artemis I Post-Flight Assessment Review, execute planned
modifications and upgrades required to support the Artemis II astronauts onboard, and complete
stacking and testing of the integrated SLS and Orion.

By September 2025—NASA’s planned Artemis II launch date—the Agency will have spent more than $55
billion on SLS, Orion, and the ground systems needed for the Artemis missions. Given the high stakes of
the first crewed flight, the Agency is working to identify and mitigate any risks and challenges to ensure
the safe return of the Artemis II crew while safeguarding NASA’s significant investment in Artemis
vehicles and systems. In this audit, we examined NASA’s readiness for the Artemis II crewed mission to
lunar orbit.


Background
The Artemis campaign is a series of increasingly complex missions that will build upon each other to
establish a long-term human presence on the Moon and ultimately Mars. Key to this goal is the success
of the first two Artemis missions, which are the uncrewed and crewed test flights for NASA’s
interdependent deep space exploration systems.

Flight testing allows NASA to learn how systems and operations perform both on the ground and in the
actual flight environment. As such, NASA utilizes flight tests to mitigate risks by collecting data to certify
its designs and validate mission capabilities by seeing how systems perform in their intended
environment. Although the Agency conducts extensive system testing pre-flight, there are many
attributes of space flight that cannot be replicated on the ground or adequately emulated in modeling or
pre-launch testing. Flight testing also allows NASA to identify and document lessons learned, the
application of which is essential to the success of future missions.




                                                            NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 1
      The Artemis I mission provided significant flight and systems performance data in cislunar space that
      cannot be replicated on Earth. 1 As an uncrewed test flight, the primary goals of the Artemis I mission
      were to thoroughly test the integrated systems in the flight environment by launching Orion atop the
      SLS rocket, operating the spacecraft in a deep space environment, testing Orion’s heat shield, and
      recovering the Crew Module after reentry, descent, and splashdown. Artemis I successfully completed
      its mission milestones, including all vehicle separations, an orbit around the Earth, a trans-lunar injection, a
      lunar orbit that came within 80 miles of the Moon’s surface, a reentry into Earth’s atmosphere, and a
      landing and recovery of the Orion capsule in the Pacific Ocean.

      In preparation for the Artemis II crewed test flight, NASA is conducting ground tests to demonstrate to
      the extent possible the hardware, software, processes, and human interfaces necessary to safely fly and
      sustain astronauts in space. NASA is scheduled to launch Artemis II in September 2025 for a 10-day
      mission to orbit the Moon (see Figure 1). 2 After conducting a 23.5-hour checkout of the spacecraft’s
      systems in high Earth orbit, Orion will embark on a trajectory to reach the far side of the Moon and
      harness the Earth-Moon gravity field to pull the vehicle back to Earth. 3

Figure 1: Artemis II Planned Flight Path




Source: NASA.


      1   Cislunar is the space between the Earth and the Moon or the Moon’s orbit.
      2   In January 2024, NASA announced that the launch date for the Artemis II mission would be delayed from November 2024 to
          September 2025.
      3   High Earth orbit sits about 36,000 kilometers above the Earth’s surface.



                                                                             NASA Office of Inspector General    IG-24-011 2
         Like Artemis I, Artemis II’s goals include demonstrating the capabilities and performance of the
         integrated systems, especially the Orion spacecraft. With crew onboard, NASA plans to further evaluate
         critical survival and life support systems that were not included or fully tested during Artemis I. For
         example, Artemis II will test the crew interface displays and controls, the emergency and recovery
         communications equipment, a stowage system with crew support equipment, and the Environmental
         Control and Life Support System (ECLSS). 4 In addition, Artemis II will feature equipment designed to
         ensure the safety of the crew in the event of an emergency during ground, launch, and ascent
         operations. These include a launch pad crew escape system and an active Launch Abort System. See
         Table 1 for a summary comparison between the Artemis I and II missions.

Table 1: Comparison of Artemis I and Artemis II Missions and Objectives
                                 Artemis I                                                              Artemis II
 Uncrewed Test Flight                                                      Crewed Test Flight
 Deep Space Exploration Systems used: SLS, Orion, and EGS                  Deep Space Exploration Systems used: SLS, Orion, and EGS
 25.5-day mission                                                          Less than 10-day mission
 Objectives:                                                               Objectives:
    • Demonstrate the performance of Orion’s heat shield at                   • Evaluate crewed system performance for SLS and Orion
         lunar reentry conditions                                                  in the deep space environment
    • Operate systems in flight environment                                   • Demonstrate systems and operations essential to a
    • Retrieve Orion spacecraft                                                    crewed lunar campaign
    • Accomplish additional test flight objectives                            • Retrieve flight hardware and data
                                                                              • Demonstrate emergency and off-nominal system
                                                                                   capabilities and validate associated operations to the
                                                                                   extent practical
                                                                              • Accomplish additional test flight objectives
Source: NASA Office of Inspector General (OIG) presentation of NASA information.

         Artemis II is NASA’s only planned test mission with crew before attempting to land humans on the Moon
         during the Artemis III mission. With the addition of crew to a mission, NASA must incorporate human
         rating requirements into mission readiness. Human rating requirements are intended to ensure that
         space systems carrying crew receive additional rigor and scrutiny in their design, development,
         certification, and operation. The human rating certification process at NASA focuses on what
         reasonable steps programs have taken in designing their space systems and translating those design
         limits into operational plans and procedures to minimize the potential for loss of life or risk of injury. A
         human-rated system ensures the safety of crew, accommodates human needs, utilizes human
         capabilities, controls hazards, manages safety risks, and provides capability to safely recover the crew
         from hazardous situations. In addition to basic human needs such as environment, food, and water, the
         astronauts must have some control over the space system and its operation. 5 For example, NASA
         requirements dictate the crew have manual control of Orion’s flight path and attitude, as well as the
         ability to manually override software control and automation. 6



         4   ECLSS provides a habitable atmosphere for the crew. NASA did not fully test Orion’s ECLSS on Artemis I because portions of
             the required hardware were not installed and crew were not present to allow appropriate exercising of life support systems.
         5   Environment includes cabin temperature, pressure, humidity, oxygen, and carbon dioxide levels.
         6   Attitude is the direction the vehicle is pointed.



                                                                               NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-011 3
Artemis II Systems

           Space Launch System
As directed by the NASA Authorization Act of 2010,
NASA developed the SLS, which is the first exploration-
class launch vehicle since the Apollo Program’s
Saturn V rocket. 7 Its current design—the SLS Block 1
configuration—will be used for the first three Artemis
missions and will be able to deliver 27 metric tons to
lunar orbit. This configuration includes the core stage
that consists of propellant tanks that hold over
730,000 gallons of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen
that fuel the rocket’s four RS-25 engines, two solid
rocket boosters that provide over 75 percent of the
vehicle’s thrust during the initial minutes of flight, and
an Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage (ICPS)
responsible for propelling the Orion spacecraft to the
Moon. 8




7   NASA Authorization Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-267 (2010).
8   Beginning with the Artemis IV mission, NASA will evolve the SLS to the bigger and more powerful configuration known as
    SLS Block 1B, which will replace the ICPS with the Exploration Upper Stage. For later missions starting with Artemis IX, NASA
    will upgrade the SLS for a third time to the SLS Block 2 configuration, which will improve the solid rocket boosters.



                                                                       NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-011 4
           Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle
Orion will serve as the spacecraft to carry and sustain astronauts during their journey to and from lunar
orbit. Orion consists of a spacecraft adapter, Service Module, Crew Module, and Launch Abort System.
While the adapter joins the Orion to the SLS’s upper
stage, the Service Module provides the spacecraft
with support systems, including electricity, propulsion,
thermal control, air, and water. The Crew Module is a
pressurized capsule providing living space for the
crew. The module can accommodate 4 astronauts for
up to 21 days and provides life support, avionics,
power systems, a heat shield for thermal protection,
and a parachute system in support of a safe reentry to
Earth. Lastly, Orion includes the Launch Abort System,
which is designed to protect astronauts if a problem
arises during launch by pulling the spacecraft away
from the rocket in the case of an emergency.

           Exploration Ground Systems
Based at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida, the
EGS Program develops and operates the facilities and
ground support necessary to assemble, transport, and
launch rockets and spacecraft. These facilities include
the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB), where the SLS
and Orion are stacked and fully integrated; Launch Pad
39B, from which the integrated SLS and Orion
launches; and Mobile Launcher 1 (ML-1), which is used
to assemble the SLS and Orion, transport the
integrated vehicle to the launch pad, and provide
power, communications, coolant, fuel, stabilization,
and crew access prior to launch. 9 The Program is also
responsible for Artemis launch operations, including
preparing the launch pad and coordinating launch
activities from the Launch Control Center. After the
splashdown of Orion, the EGS Program leads recovery
operations of the vehicle and crew.




9   To support larger variants of the SLS beginning with the Artemis IV mission, NASA is building a second mobile launcher—
    Mobile Launcher 2.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-011 5
          Space Communications and Navigation
The Artemis missions also rely on communications and navigation capabilities provided by NASA’s Space
Communications and Navigation (SCaN) Program. As part of NASA’s Space Operations Mission
Directorate, SCaN manages both the Agency’s Near Space Network (NSN) and Deep Space Network
(DSN), which provide flight controllers spacecraft tracking and telemetry data and allows them to send
and receive spacecraft commands using radio waves. 10
     •    Near Space Network. NSN relies on a combination of commercial and government-owned,
          contractor-operated assets, including 22 ground antennas located around the world and a
          constellation of tracking and data relay satellites, to provide communication and navigation
          services to launch vehicles, robotics, and crewed space flight missions. For Artemis missions,
          the NSN Direct-to-Earth service is used to track the mission during launch and early phases of
          ascent, while the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite system provides tracking data during the
          mission’s orbital ascent and return to Earth. 11
     •    Deep Space Network. DSN operates antennas and transmitters at communication complexes in
          three facilities spaced equidistant from each other around the world: Goldstone, California;
          Madrid, Spain; and Canberra, Australia. 12 These locations are strategically placed to allow
          constant communication with spacecraft as the Earth rotates, a model called “Follow the Sun.”
          Under this model, each site operates the entire network during their day shift, handing off
          control to the next site as their day ends. The Artemis missions rely on DSN to provide
          communications with the crew onboard, receive imagery from the Orion capsule, and send
          commands to the spacecraft while en route to and in orbit around the Moon and when
          returning to Earth.

Currently, more than 100 missions rely on SCaN’s NSN and DSN services, including uncrewed scientific
space probe missions from NASA’s Science Mission Directorate, as well as other U.S. government
agencies and international partners. For the Artemis missions, DSN will need to support a constant flow
of data with the Orion capsule, which will require complex coordination throughout the Agency. In
July 2023, we reported that DSN is oversubscribed and overburdened with demands due to the
increasing number of missions it supports and recommended NASA explore more efficient options for
DSN scheduling, such as maintaining a list of network users by priority. 13




10 Tracking is the function that allows flight controllers to determine the position and velocity of a spacecraft with great

  precision. Telemetry is the collection, processing, and transmission back to Earth of a spacecraft’s performance data.
  Command is the function that allows remote control of a spacecraft.
11 NSN provides two categories of communication services: (1) Direct-to-Earth enables direct communication between a

  spacecraft and antennas on Earth and (2) Tracking Data and Relay Satellites provide communication between a spacecraft
  and one of many satellites in Earth’s orbit that connects to a ground antenna.
12 NASA has agreements with the Spanish and Australian governments to manage day-to-day operations at the foreign sites

  together with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, a federally funded research and development center in Pasadena, California, for
  the Goldstone site.
13 NASA Office of Inspector General (OIG), Audit of NASA’s Deep Space Network (IG-23-016, July 12, 2023).




                                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General           IG-24-011 6
Artemis Campaign Management
NASA’s Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate (ESDMD) is responsible for managing
development of systems and programs critical for the Artemis campaign and for planning the Agency’s
Moon to Mars exploration approach. As directed by the 2022 NASA Authorization Act, NASA established
the Moon to Mars Program Office within ESDMD to focus on hardware development, mission
integration, and risk management functions critical to the Agency’s deep space exploration goals. 14 The
Moon to Mars Program Office oversees development of the SLS rocket, Orion spacecraft, and supporting
ground systems, in addition to other systems—such as spacesuits and the human landing system—
needed for future Artemis missions (see Figure 2).

Figure 2: NASA’s Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate Organization Chart




Source: NASA OIG presentation of Agency information.

The Moon to Mars Program Office, on behalf of ESDMD, is responsible for overseeing the Post-Flight
Assessment Review (PFAR)—a standardized review process conducted after each mission. As part of
this process for the Artemis I mission, each of the mission elements, including the SLS, Orion, and EGS
programs, conducted their own PFAR that then contributed to the overarching Moon to Mars PFAR. The
PFAR is designed to evaluate how well Artemis I met its mission objectives, assess system performance,
and identify any flight and ground system anomalies. The primary focus of this exercise is to assess
NASA’s readiness to proceed to the next mission—Artemis II. The information gathered informs the
actions necessary to resolve or mitigate issues for future flights. Furthermore, engineers compare the
actual vehicle performance to pre-flight modeling predictions to determine any necessary adjustments
to subsequent missions. The Agency conducted the Artemis I PFAR in July 2023. As of February 2024,
actions items identified during the PFAR process were still open and in work.



14 NASA Authorization Act of 2022, Pub. L. No. 117-167 (2022).




                                                                 NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 7
ARTEMIS I TEST FLIGHT REVEALED CRITICAL
ISSUES THAT NASA IS WORKING TO ADDRESS
BEFORE THE ARTEMIS II MISSION

After more than a decade of development, NASA successfully completed the Artemis I mission, meeting
all four of its primary objectives. Although the Artemis I test flight is considered by the Agency to be a
significant achievement and sets the stage for the next missions in the Artemis campaign, the flight
revealed several unexpected issues that NASA is working to address prior to the Artemis II launch.
Specifically, anomalies with the Orion heat shield, separation bolts, and power disruptions pose
potential risks to crew safety. Resolution of these issues is among the most significant factors impacting
NASA’s readiness for Artemis II and the safety of the crew. Moreover, greater than expected launch
damage required significant repair to the ML-1 and an in-flight loss of communication event revealed
hardware and process issues. In addition, we identified missed opportunities to optimize Artemis I data
collection that could have an impact on the Artemis II mission. Collectively, these issues and the steps
that NASA is taking to address them will impact the Agency’s readiness for Artemis II and its ability to
safely return humans to and from lunar orbit.


Orion Anomalies Pose Significant Safety Risks
to the Crew

Heat Shield Char Loss
NASA identified more than 100 locations where
ablative thermal protective material from Orion’s heat
shield chipped away unexpectedly during reentry into
Earth’s atmosphere. During descent, the spacecraft
reached speeds of nearly 25,000 miles per hour and
endured temperatures about half as hot as the
surface of the Sun—nearly 5,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Orion’s heat shield is designed to protect the Crew
Module, its systems, and the crew from this intense
heat during reentry. While the heat shield successfully
protected the Crew Module and its systems during
the Artemis I mission, upon inspection after Orion’s
recovery, engineers noted unexpected variations in
the appearance of the heat shield Avcoat—the
ablative material that helps protect the capsule from




                                                          NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 8
the heat of reentry. 15 Specifically, portions of the char layer wore away differently than NASA engineers
predicted, cracking and breaking off the spacecraft in fragments that created a trail of debris rather than
melting away as designed (see Figure 3). The unexpected behavior of the Avcoat creates a risk that the
heat shield may not sufficiently protect the capsule’s systems and crew from the extreme heat of
reentry on future missions. Moreover, while there was no evidence of impact with the Crew Module,
the quantity and size of the debris could have caused enough structural damage to cause one of Orion’s
parachutes to fail. Should the same issue occur on future Artemis missions, it could lead to the loss of
the vehicle or crew.
Figure 3: Orion Heat Shield Char Loss After Artemis I Mission




Source: NASA.

In our judgment, the unexpected behavior of the heat shield poses a significant risk to the safety of
future crewed missions. Recognizing this threat, NASA formed a Tiger Team to investigate the char loss
phenomenon. 16 The team’s ability to reproduce and model the char loss conditions will influence
NASA’s corrective actions going forward. Engineers are conducting ground tests to understand the
Avcoat material’s thermal response. Although they were able to recreate the char loss, they could not
reproduce the exact material response or flight environment experienced during Artemis I. Ultimately,
ground testing cannot replicate the exact temperature and speed conditions the heat shield faces during
reentry. In comparison, Orion’s velocity is about 40 percent faster than what astronauts face in a
SpaceX Crew Dragon on its return from the International Space Station due to the greater distance Orion
must travel to return to Earth. The ongoing investigation is scheduled to conclude in the first half of
2024 following further ground testing.
Senior NASA leaders expressed commitment to identifying the root cause of the char loss condition and
making a data-informed decision on the Artemis II path forward. However, they also acknowledged
they may not be able to identify a definitive root cause. As such, engineers are concurrently
investigating ways to mitigate the char loss by modifying the heat shield’s design or altering Orion’s
reentry trajectory. No matter the path forward, like with any engineering system, changes to the heat




15 The Avcoat char is designed to ablate—that is, evaporate or melt from friction with Earth’s atmosphere upon reentry.

16 Tiger teams are composed of diverse discipline experts called upon to solve difficult or complex technical problems.




                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-011 9
         shield design or its operational use can lead to unintended consequences and introduce residual risks. 17
         For instance, altering Orion’s reentry path can create more stressing conditions that exacerbate the char
         loss phenomenon or introduce new failures or unknowns into the system. Without understanding the
         residual effects of introducing design and operational changes, it will be difficult for the Agency to ensure
         that the mitigations or hardware changes adopted will effectively reduce the risks to astronaut safety.


         Bolt Melting and Erosion
        Post-flight inspections of the Crew Module/Service Module separation bolts revealed unexpected
        melting and erosion that created a gap leading to increased heating inside the bolt during Orion’s reentry.
        The Crew Module houses four separation bolts located at specified increments on the capsule to provide
        structural support for the attachment of the Crew Module to the Service Module. Upon reentry to the
        Earth’s atmosphere, the bolts receive a separation command releasing the Crew Module from the
        Service Module. The Service Module burns up in Earth’s atmosphere, while the Crew Module continues
        its descent and landing under the protection of the heat shield. As shown in Figure 4, the separation
        bolts are surrounded by blocks of thermal protective Avcoat and sealed with thermal protective filler,
        while their surface is exposed to the extreme heat of reentry. NASA requires the bolts to remain flush
        with the thermal protective material following Service Module separation to guard against excessive
        heating. However, during Artemis I, three out of the four bolts experienced an exposed gap that
        allowed for increased heating to the bolt interior and greater than expected melting and erosion.

Figure 4: Orion Crew Module/Service Module Separation Bolt Melting and Erosion




Source: NASA.

         Separation bolt melt beyond the thermal barrier during reentry can expose the vehicle to hot gas
         ingestion behind the heat shield, exceeding Orion’s structural limits and resulting in the breakup of the
         vehicle and loss of crew. Post-flight inspections determined there was a discrepancy in the thermal


         17 Residual risks are the remaining risks that exist after the implementation or exhaustion of all mitigation actions in accordance

           with a risk management process.



                                                                                NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-011 10
model used to predict the bolts’ performance pre-flight. Current predictions using the correct
information suggest the bolt melt exceeds the design capability of Orion. While the Agency plans to
redesign the separation bolt for later Artemis missions, to mitigate this issue for Artemis II, the Orion
Program made minor modifications to the separation bolt design and added additional thermal
protective barrier material in the bolt gaps. NASA is also exploring changing the Artemis II mission
reentry trajectory to limit friction and heating on the bolts.

Installation of the separation bolt mechanism on the Artemis II Orion vehicle occurred in September
2023. Further testing is ongoing; however, NASA cannot complete final separation bolt assessments
until it concludes the investigation on the heat shield char loss in the first half of 2024 and updates its
thermal model to account for the full scope of Artemis II design and operational changes. Ultimately,
the path forward on the separation bolt melting and erosion condition is dependent on how NASA
addresses the unexpected heat shield conditions because any changes to the heat shield Avcoat
performance can also impact the bolts’ performance. Moreover, like with the heat shield, without
understanding the residual effects of introducing design and operational changes, it will be difficult for
the Agency to ensure that the mitigations or hardware changes adopted will effectively reduce the risks
to astronaut safety.


Uncommanded Power Disruption
Throughout the Artemis I mission, NASA recorded 24 instances of the Power Conditioning and
Distribution Unit (PCDU) Latching Current Limiters in the Service Module opening without a documented
command. 18 Orion’s two PCDUs are responsible for delivering power to the spacecraft’s systems,
including vehicle propulsion and pressurization. The uncommanded openings are similar to a circuit
breaker tripping in a home’s electrical panel and disrupting its power. Based on previous ground testing,
NASA did not expect to experience any instances of this condition during the mission.

During Artemis I, NASA successfully commanded the opened Latching Current Limiters back to their
closed position; however, the PCDU anomalies prevented normal voltages and currents, interrupted the
current flow through Orion’s Electrical Power System, and failed to deliver power to some of Orion’s
components during one occurrence. Moreover, the uncommanded openings resulted in a loss of
required redundancy for safety-critical systems because only one of two PCDUs were operational during
most of the occurrences.

The PCDU investigation team determined radiation was the root cause of the power disruptions. NASA
engineers have implemented and tested flight software changes and operational workarounds to help
address these power disruption events should they occur during Artemis II. The crew and flight control
teams will also receive training on how to respond to these anomalies and return the system to normal
functioning. However, without a verified permanent hardware fix addressing the root cause prior to the
Artemis II mission, the risk is increased that these systems may not operate as intended, leading to a loss
of redundancy, inadequate power, and potential loss of vehicle propulsion and pressurization during the
first crewed mission. The Orion Program has accepted this increased risk for Artemis II.



18 The PCDU is responsible for taking power generated by the solar arrays and distributing it to Orion’s systems, including the

  spacecraft’s batteries for periods when the solar arrays are not available due to dark conditions. The Latching Current
  Limiters are the electronic circuit breakers that control the power from the PCDU to the Service Module components and the
  rest of the vehicle.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-011 11
Greater than Expected Launch Damage Necessitates
Mobile Launcher 1 Repairs and Improvements

ML-1 Damage
The ML-1 sustained more damage than NASA expected due to the Artemis I launch-induced
environment. While NASA anticipated that some materials and equipment would be sacrificial to the
launch and require replacement, ML-1 elevators, electrical equipment, enclosure panel doors, and
pneumatic tubing sustained significant unexpected damage. The extensive repairs to address this
damage will cost more than $26 million, roughly 5 times more than the $5 million the EGS Program
originally set aside for post-Artemis I launch repairs. 19

During launch, the SLS generates exhaust blast plume pressure, random vibration, vibration from
acoustics, and heat. These loads—collectively known as the launch-induced environment—can cause
damage to the launch vehicle, payload, launch pad, and surrounding structures. NASA’s models of how
it expected the ML-1 to respond to the Artemis I launch-induced environment underpredicted some of
the launch-induced loads—namely horizontal plume pressure, acoustic vibrations, and heat. Loads can
have unique and interdependent impacts on a structure. According to NASA officials, acoustics had the
biggest impact.

To anticipate the impact of the launch-induced environment on the ML-1, NASA used computer
modeling and historical data. NASA focused its acoustic testing on higher frequencies—above 150 hertz
(Hz)—and did not record measurements below 20 Hz. As a result, the testing was unable to determine
the impact lower frequencies would have on the ML-1. NASA instead relied primarily on Space Shuttle
data for the low frequency acoustic estimates, which proved ineffective in predicting the impact of
lower frequencies. To this point, according to Agency officials, it was acoustic vibrations at the lower
frequencies—specifically between 6 and 8 Hz—that caused the enclosures housing the ML-1 electrical
components to open and SLS booster engine corrosive exhaust to penetrate. NASA is working to update
all environmental loads analyses with data from the Artemis I launch to refine its predictions for the
Artemis II launch.

NASA was able to assess the damage to the ML-1 soon after the launch and has taken steps to make
repairs and harden the ML-1 to improve its performance ahead of the Artemis II mission. Repairs to the
launch facilities began in January 2023 and are scheduled to continue through May 2024.

         Elevators
ML-1 elevator doors were blown off during the Artemis I launch, allowing the interior structure to be
heavily damaged. Specifically, the elevator car tracks were bent, and the counterweight was dislodged
from the track. 20 It took NASA 6 weeks to bring one elevator back online and roughly 4 months to finish
repairing the second elevator. According to an Agency official, going into the Artemis I mission it was
not known that the elevator “blast doors” were not in fact blast doors but rather fiberglass doors

19 While the bulk of the repairs are being made to the ML-1, this amount also includes estimates for post-launch refurbishment

  of Launch Pad 39B to make repairs to the launch pad’s flame trench, chillers, and lighting systems. According to EGS Program
  officials, the ML-1 repairs have been funded by EGS program reserves.
20 An elevator counterweight is an added weight that gives balance to the elevator system.




                                                                     NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-011 12
designed to keep wind out. In preparation for Artemis II, the elevator doors will be replaced and frames
hardened to meet the requirements of updated loads analyses from the Artemis I mission (see Figure 5).

Figure 5: ML-1 Elevator Damage Post-Artemis I Launch




Source: NASA.



        Electrical Equipment and Enclosures
In total, 60 enclosures that house ML-1 electrical components sustained damage during the Artemis I
launch. Specifically, vibrations caused from low frequency acoustics bent and opened panel doors
exposing internal components to corrosive exhaust expelled by the SLS boosters. According to NASA
officials, some heritage electrical panels reused on the ML-1 from the Space Shuttle era took heavier
damage than other panels due to these panels using a different type of steel that was less resistant to
corrosion. Other ML-1 work priorities and the limited availability of steel precluded NASA from
replacing these panels prior to the Artemis I launch. In preparation for the Artemis II mission, the
Agency plans to add metal strapping around the cabinets to keep the doors shut—an effort that worked
to keep other doors closed on the ML-1 (see Figure 6).




                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 13
Figure 6: ML-1 Panel Door Damage Post-Artemis I Launch




Source: NASA.



         Pneumatic Systems
ML-1 base and tower pneumatic systems sustained significant damage during the Artemis I launch
resulting in bent, broken, and disconnected tubing. 21 According to NASA officials, some tubing was
penetrated by launch debris. Other tubing became disconnected from base pneumatic control panels
when welds failed to keep the panel enclosures attached to the launcher base under the acoustics loads
created during launch. To mitigate the effects of acoustic vibrations during launch, NASA plans to
modify some permanently welded enclosure attachments to spring isolators and change hardline
connections to flexhose connections for the base pneumatic panels.

In addition to this damage, nearly all of the 316 stainless steel tubing on the exterior of the ML-1
sustained accelerated corrosion and impingement due to exposure to highly acidic solid rocket booster
exhaust, which is expected to continue indefinitely even after cleaning. NASA plans to replace
thousands of linear feet of tubing with a variety that is more corrosion resistant. As we reported in
October 2023, due to supply chain issues that would have resulted in a 12-week delay, more than half of
the tubing being replaced—roughly 10,500 linear feet out of 18,000—has been “borrowed” from the
Mobile Launcher 2 construction effort, which did not need the tubing at that time. 22 For the tubing that
is not being replaced, the Agency plans to add a special coating to minimize the impacts of corrosive
exhaust (see Figure 7).




21 The pneumatic lines supply the launcher and rocket with gaseous nitrogen and helium.

22 NASA OIG, NASA’s Management of the Artemis Supply Chain (IG-24-003, October 19, 2023). The ML-1 project purchased the

  tubing from the Mobile Launcher 2 project for $226,046.



                                                                    NASA Office of Inspector General    IG-24-011 14
Figure 7: ML-1 Frame Welds and Pneumatic Tubing Post-Artemis I Launch




Source: NASA.



        Washdown System
Damage to the gaseous nitrogen supply panel after the Artemis I launch prevented the ML-1’s
washdown system from working and further exacerbated the damage to the launcher, allowing
corrosive exhaust residue from the SLS boosters to coat and slowly corrode ML-1 tubing for days after
the launch. The washdown cycle is composed of eight stages that flow for 4 minutes each with a small
delay between each stage. Since the system did not work, manual washdowns for the ML-1 started
5 days after launch on November 21, 2022, and did not finish until 11 days later on December 1, 2022.
Had the system worked properly, it would have taken 35 minutes to complete the post-launch
washdown of the launcher. To correct this problem for the Artemis II mission, NASA is making
modifications to prevent damage to the gaseous nitrogen supply panel by replacing the hardline
connections with flexhose connections between the facility supply line, vent line, and the panel.


Risk of Debris Strike
The Artemis I launch generated greater than expected foreign object debris due in large part to the
significant amount of damage to the ML-1. For example, one elevator door blown off during the
Artemis I launch was captured by the rails on the perimeter of the launch tower, while the other door
landed beyond the boundaries of the tower. Debris poses a significant risk of catastrophic damage to



                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 15
vehicle, spacecraft, and critical ground systems. Consequently, in February 2023 the EGS Program stood
up a Tiger Team to investigate the issues with launch debris. As of August 2023, the team had identified
three primary root causes for the debris issues: (1) launch-induced environment, (2) ML-1 design
deficiencies, and (3) process issues. The Tiger Team is developing recommendations to address these
issues, including improved models that more accurately reflect the launch-induced environment,
redesign of design deficiency nonconformances, and process changes.


In-Flight Communication Losses Underscore the
Importance of Maintaining the Deep Space Network
On flight day 18 of Artemis I, NASA encountered a 4.5-hour loss of communications with the Orion
spacecraft when one of the three DSN facilities—Goldstone—experienced a site-wide outage. Including
Artemis I, a total of 17 NASA and international partner missions were affected with thousands of
minutes of telemetry data lost.

Multiple hard drive failures, in combination with an out-of-date operating system, caused the Goldstone
outage. The DSN’s virtual hosting hardware called the Private Cloud Appliance (PCA) includes 24 hard
drives. NASA was relying on the system’s internal redundancy, which is designed to withstand up to
four hard drives failing. However, the Agency was not aware that two hard drives had already failed
over the 12 months preceding the Artemis I mission. Bugs in the out-of-date PCA software prevented
failure indicators from operating, including the display of warning hard drive status lights and the
automated recovery and system reboot function. Figure 8 depicts a PCA, its 24 hard drives, and where
the hard drive status lights are located.

Figure 8: Depiction of DSN Private Cloud Appliance




Source: NASA OIG presentation of Agency information.



                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 16
The Goldstone communication outage encountered during the Artemis I mission can largely be
attributed to network maintenance deferrals and deterioration of hardware, which have been long-
standing issues for NASA’s DSN. We previously reported that budget reductions challenged DSN’s ability
to maintain performance levels and threatened future reliability. 23 Specifically, when SCaN reduced
DSN’s budget in fiscal year 2013, DSN proposed to delay key components of its project to modernize and
expand its hardware, reduce personnel at certain locations, and cancel and delay maintenance facility
tasks. In fact, the PCAs—deployed in 2016—had only had minor hardware upgrades, leaving them
susceptible to software bugs for extended periods of time.

Further compounding the issue is the difficulty DSN officials face in finding time when they can take
PCAs offline for maintenance given the increasing demand on the DSN. In July 2023, we reported that
DSN is currently operating at capacity, with demand exceeding supply by 40 percent at times. 24 We also
reported that demand for DSN support is projected to increase dramatically—by a factor of 10—in the
next decade due to the increase in the number of deep space missions and the complexity of human
exploration missions. Because each DSN complex relies on a single PCA to host its antenna operations,
performing maintenance procedures typically causes operational downtime. Consequently, to maintain
network stability prior to and during critical mission phases, such as the months leading up to the
Artemis I launch, DSN officials defer maintenance and updates on the PCAs.

NASA has begun to take corrective actions to mitigate the DSN issues that impacted Artemis I
communications. In January 2023, SCaN convened a Failure Review Board to investigate the Goldstone
outage. Four months later, the Board produced a comprehensive report that included a root cause
analysis as well as recommendations. The Board identified weaknesses in NASA’s risk assessment and
prioritization processes, which should have elevated the PCA to near-term action but instead relied on
the hardware’s internal redundancy. The Board also recommended that DSN and SCaN work to review
existing risks, determine if new risks should be documented, and push for stronger advocacy at the
Agency level for additional funding and more frequent operational downtime.

SCaN officials have also taken steps to address the equipment issues and implement process
improvements. SCaN replaced the four faulty hard drives that caused the Artemis I Goldstone outage,
upgraded the PCA software and operating systems, and pre-staged on-site replacement drives for a
quicker recovery should another outage occur. In addition, the Program implemented automated PCA
monitoring capabilities, improved the recovery and restart processes, and documented the manual
workaround, which brought the system back online.

Further guarding against the potential for an outage during Artemis II, NASA has several new agreements
in place with international partners to provide backup coverage should a similar event occur. For example,
the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has several antennas in its network, and the European Space
Agency has a similar footprint as the DSN. This backup coverage is especially important for NASA’s first
crewed Artemis mission because, according to the Failure Review Board, the risk of additional drives failing
and disrupting communication during the mission is increasingly likely due to the hardware’s age. In fact,
since the Artemis I mission, two similar failures have occurred at Canberra and Goldstone, requiring the
replacement of three additional hard drives. Looking forward, it is critical that the Agency continues to
focus on improving DSN’s maintenance, operations, and reliability to better ensure the network does not
encounter outages that could put the Artemis II crew and spacecraft at risk.


23 NASA OIG, NASA’s Management of the Deep Space Network (IG-15-013, March 26, 2015).

24 IG-23-016.




                                                                NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 17
Missed Data Collection Opportunities Extend Known
Risks to Future Crewed Missions
Artemis I provided NASA the opportunity to test integrated systems in the actual flight environment that
Artemis missions will operate. The mission also represented a critical opportunity for known risk
reduction ahead of Artemis II. However, limited collection of imagery, telemetry, and physical evidence
impacted NASA’s ability to fully evaluate and address certain launch, landing, and recovery risks.


Imagery Issues
The Artemis I mission experienced numerous imagery issues during launch, limiting the availability of
quality launch imagery data. These issues were further exacerbated by NASA’s decision to launch at
night. According to Moon to Mars Program Office officials and the Artemis I technical baseline
document, daylight launches are highly desired to enhance data collection during key events but are not
a requirement. 25 After two unsuccessful daylight launch attempts, NASA determined the program cost
and schedule risk associated with waiting for another daytime launch window outweighed the risk of a
night launch for Artemis I. The Agency verified and validated camera settings prior to launch as
required; however, it did not reverify and revalidate that the camera settings were accurately adjusted
for the conditions of a night launch due to lack of procedures. 26 According to Agency officials, software
issues caused the cameras to not accept the settings that adjusted for the conditions of the launch
environment. As a result, the Artemis I launch experienced exposure issues for 32 of 33 cameras,
including under-exposure that resulted in images that
were too dark. The mission imagery also saw the
field of view slightly out of alignment for six cameras,
camera fogginess, and high-speed digital scan lines in
images. Should improperly adjusted camera
equipment recur on Artemis II, the Agency risks
missing detection of critical events that can impact
crew and vehicle safety.

Imagery is a key contributor to NASA’s ability to
identify and collect data necessary to evaluate
mission performance. Of primary concern is
collecting imagery data on vehicle integrity, attitude
and guidance, booster separation, main engine and
booster plume effects, and ascent debris releases.
For example, a primary flight test objective for
Artemis I was to identify liftoff, ascent, and
separation debris. Debris impacting the launch
vehicle during liftoff and ascent can cause
catastrophic damage leading to the loss of mission and ultimately the loss of crew when astronauts are
on board. During Artemis I, engineers from NASA‘s Joint Engineering Team for Imagery described a
significant impact to their ability to identify ascent debris due to the dark conditions and improperly

25 The Mission Definition Baseline, the Artemis I technical document, serves as the central repository for key mission specific

  requirements and objectives.
26 NASA GSDO-PLN-1195, Rev. D, Cross-Program Processes and Agreements for Launch Site Ground Operations (March 3, 2021).




                                                                       NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-011 18
adjusted camera equipment. For example, engineers could not see the upper two-thirds of the SLS or
the debris shedding events from the forward portion of the integrated vehicle. Since debris
identification and sizing could not be performed due to the camera issues and the night launch, NASA
was unable to close an unresolved SLS booster throat plug debris risk that the Agency has been tracking
for more than 10 years. 27

The EGS Program stood up a Tiger Team in January 2023 to address the technical imagery issues and has
already taken some corrective actions. For the exposure issue, EGS is implementing software changes,
updating procedure steps, and conducting training. For the field of view issue, corrective actions include
making procedural clarifications and updating training. EGS is also adding new verification and
validation procedures. 28 Any additional work required to implement these changes could impact the
EGS Program’s schedule for Artemis II.


Key Hardware Not Recovered
NASA was unable to recover jettisoned hardware from the Orion capsule during Artemis I landing and
recovery operations. Of primary importance were recovery of the three main parachutes, which are
used to slow the Crew Module for landing to a speed that ensures astronaut safety, and the Forward
Bay Cover, which protects Orion’s parachutes during the heat of reentry. A failure of any of these
systems can lead to crew injuries or fatalities. Orion had an Artemis I flight test objective to
demonstrate nominal end-of-mission main parachute and Forward Bay Cover recovery. 29 The Landing
and Recovery Team is responsible for recovering the Orion vehicle and crew—along with jettisoned
hardware—after splashdown and returning them to land. 30 While the Agency had plans, people,
procedures, and hardware in place, the recovery team was not able to arrive at the splashdown location
before the jettisoned hardware sank in the Pacific Ocean. Although pre-flight analysis indicated a
possibility of enough buoyancy to allow for the recovery forces to arrive in time, the hardware sank
faster than projected.

Post-flight inspections of jettisoned hardware allow the Agency to learn more about how the hardware
performed, as there is no substitute for the physical assessment of components flown in the actual flight
environment. Without recovery and physical inspection of the parachutes and Forward Bay Cover,
certain details of their actual performance remain unclear, requiring the Agency to rely on imagery to
capture and evaluate as much of the hardware’s performance as possible. According to Agency officials,
for future missions, the Orion Program is evaluating adding flotation capabilities to the jettisoned
hardware to allow additional time for the recovery teams to recover or inspect them for post-flight
analysis.



27 The SLS booster throat plug is an environmental barrier that prevents heat, dust, and moisture from getting inside the

  booster before it ignites.
28 Verification and validation is a testing process during which NASA verifies that a system meets its requirements and validates

  that a system works as intended.
29 Recovery of the parachutes and Forward Bay Cover was a secondary flight test objective that the Agency considered

  desirable but not mandatory. NASA’s rationale for recovering jettisoned flight hardware is that it is critical for post-flight
  engineering analysis.
30 The interagency Landing and Recovery Team, led by the EGS Program, consists of personnel and assets from the

  U.S. Department of Defense, including Navy amphibious specialists and Air Force weather specialists, and engineers and
  technicians from Kennedy Space Center, Johnson Space Center, and the Lockheed Martin Corporation.



                                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General           IG-24-011 19
        Parachutes
NASA could not examine the condition of Orion’s
three main parachutes because they sank to the
bottom of the Pacific Ocean before the recovery
team could reach them. Landing is one of the riskiest
phases of the mission for astronaut safety. Returning
to Earth from lunar orbit at speeds that approach
25,000 miles per hour, the Orion spacecraft relies on
its parachutes to slow the vehicle to a safe landing
speed of 20 miles per hour or less. Post-flight
inspection of parachute hardware can provide
important information on flight performance and
anomaly resolution, such as debris impact
assessments, and can facilitate identification of
hardware issues otherwise undetected.

NASA performed extensive testing to certify the
parachutes prior to Artemis I; however, the Agency
was still discovering new findings towards the end of
that testing, reinforcing the complexity associated
with parachute design, testing, and analytical modeling
that predicts flight parachute deployment and performance. The importance of recovering a parachute
for analysis was demonstrated in NASA’s Commercial Crew Program, which discovered unexpected
parachute findings with every crewed mission upon physical inspection of the recovered hardware and
imagery. These findings—some of which resulted in design changes—would have gone unidentified
without parachute recovery and inspection. Likewise, recovering the Artemis I parachutes would have
allowed NASA to inspect and evaluate the potential for debris impact damage as previously discussed.

        Forward Bay Cover
After Orion reenters Earth’s atmosphere, it jettisons the Forward Bay Cover to allow for the deployment
of its parachute system. The Forward Bay Cover jettison operation can lead to parachute line
entanglements or recontact with the vehicle, preventing proper parachute deployment and risking crew
safety. For Artemis I, predicted jettison loads were higher than the Forward Bay Cover’s joint capability,
resulting in excessive stress on its fasteners. Overloading the fasteners can potentially lead to their
failure, causing the Forward Bay Cover to recontact the Orion capsule after being jettisoned and damage
critical flight safety hardware. Without recovery and post-flight inspection of the Forward Bay Cover,
details of its actual jettison performance are unclear. Additionally, there was insufficient onboard and
external imagery to conduct a performance assessment of key Forward Bay Cover deployment
characteristics to determine whether there were any parachute line entanglements or recontact with
the spacecraft after jettison.




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 20
Inaccessible Data
The Orion Program also struggled to process a portion of the vehicle’s telemetry data resulting in a
degraded assessment of critical events from the Artemis I mission. Engineers estimate that 20 to
25 percent of Orion’s telemetry data will need additional processing to become usable for analysis. This
has prevented the Agency from using this data to fully achieve some of its flight test objectives meant to
reduce risk for the Artemis II mission. Based on preliminary investigations, engineers believe the
information was recorded on the vehicle and exists in a raw format; however, software designed to
extract the data from the Orion vehicle and convert it into a usable format is not performing as
intended. The Orion Program is still determining the root cause of this issue. Although the inaccessible
data prevents the detailed assessment of some measures of performance related to vehicle
aerodynamics; mechanisms; and guidance, navigation, and control; Program officials noted that based
on the system’s overall performance and their review of the available data they are confident the
vehicle performed as expected in the flight environment. While the Orion Program continues its
Artemis I data recovery efforts and works towards a data processing solution, without a known root
cause and implementation of corrective actions, unreadable data may recur on Artemis II, potentially
impacting NASA’s future risk mitigation efforts as the Artemis missions grow more complex.




                                                          NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 21
SIGNIFICANT UPGRADES, MODIFICATIONS,
TESTING, AND INTEGRATION ACTIVITIES REMAIN,
DELAYING THE ARTEMIS II LAUNCH DATE BY
ALMOST ONE YEAR

In addition to addressing the technical issues and risks discovered from the Artemis I test flight, NASA
has further work and testing that it must complete to safely return humans to lunar orbit. NASA’s
planned work for Artemis II includes upgrades and modifications to the Orion spacecraft, ground
facilities, and SLS rocket. Although NASA is making progress on this work, verification and validation
testing for some of these upgrades and modifications is taking longer than expected. Furthermore,
qualification and acceptance testing of Orion’s component parts uncovered circuitry and battery issues
that require additional time to resolve. As a result, in January 2024, NASA announced that it would push
the Artemis II launch date from November 2024 to September 2025. While NASA works to address
these issues, the Agency will need to balance the timing of stacking all the various components of the
SLS and Orion on the ML-1 with the potential for additional delays to correct these and any new issues
identified during testing.


NASA Is Making Planned Artemis II Upgrades and
Modifications in Support of Adding Crew, but Significant
Testing Remains
In support of the Artemis II mission and the addition of crew, NASA is making a variety of planned
upgrades and modifications to various Orion, EGS, and SLS systems and facilities. Among the more
costly and significant are adjustments to the Orion spacecraft’s side hatch, addition of a ground-based
Emergency Egress System, and upgrades to the SLS booster separation motor covers. As of January
2024, verification and validation testing of some of these efforts was ongoing. During the verification
and validation testing process, NASA verifies that a system meets its requirements and validates that a
system works as intended. NASA also identifies and addresses any issues discovered during this process
and conducts additional testing as needed. Although NASA is making progress on this work, recent
schedules show that more time is needed to test some of the planned upgrades and modifications to
the Artemis II systems.




                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 22
    •    Orion Avionics Boxes. The Orion Program successfully refurbished and installed nine avionics
         boxes recovered from the Artemis I Orion slated for reuse—an activity the Agency had
         previously thought would take much longer, be more challenging, and represent the longest
         path to achieving Artemis II readiness. 31 This effort was completed in February 2023.
    •    Orion ECLSS. Artemis II will be the first flight with the advanced Environmental Control and Life
         Support System (ECLSS). Key ECLSS components include atmosphere revitalization, pressure
         control, crew water supply, and crew waste management. NASA previously flew and tested
         several Orion ECLSS components on the International Space Station. The Artemis II crew will
         further assess performance of ECLSS capabilities while orbiting Earth to ensure the system is
         working as expected before committing to the lunar flyby portion of the mission. ECLSS
         components were installed in multiple stages with the final ECLSS component installed in July
         2023. As of January 2024, verification and validation testing was in work, but additional tests
         are required due to a separate issue with Orion’s circuitry that impacts ECLSS functionality.
    •    Orion Side Hatch. The Orion Program is working to address a 7-year-long concern related to the
         Orion side hatch—the primary entry and exit vehicle path for the crew and ground support
         personnel prior to launch and after landing. The hatch does not meet pressure opening
         requirements because it does not have a valve to perform pressure equalization, making it
         difficult to open manually. This is especially concerning should an emergency require a rapid
         extraction of the crew while on the launch pad or after splashdown. While methods exist to
         equalize pressure across the hatch prior to opening, there are some limitations. The Agency is
         planning to test its emergency egress procedures with the crew to identify any additional
         required mitigations to address this issue. The scheduled completion date is spring 2024.
    •    Ground Environmental Control System. The EGS Program replaced its Environmental Control
         System (ECS) with a new one that will provide air supply, thermal control, and pressurization to
         the integrated Artemis systems while in the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB). The Program is
         also making modifications to the ECS at Launch Pad 39B. At a total cost of $60 million,
         construction of the launch pad ECS was completed in October 2023 and construction of the VAB
         ECS was completed in December 2023; however, construction issues and resource availability
         constraints have caused delays to system testing at both the VAB and launch pad.
    •    Liquid Hydrogen Sphere. The EGS Program built a new 1.4-million-gallon liquid hydrogen tank
         that will supplement the 850,000-gallon tank used during the Artemis I mission. This new, larger
         tank will enable the Agency to reattempt a launch just 24 hours after a scrub. The EGS Program
         will complete construction of this project in May 2024 at a cost of $68 million.
    •    Emergency Egress System. The EGS Program constructed a launch pad escape system for flight
         crew and ground support personnel to evacuate the pad up to a few seconds before launch.
         The Emergency Egress System will include three platforms on the ML-1 and four baskets. Each
         of the baskets will have the capability of holding five people. Similar to a zipline, baskets are
         connected to a slidewire that can transport crew from the ML-1 to the emergency egress
         landing pad where an armored vehicle will transport them to one of two medical triage sites.
         The EGS Program was scheduled to complete construction of this system in February 2024 at a
         cost of $35 million; however, construction issues have delayed the start of testing.


31 The Orion spacecraft houses a number of state-of-the-art avionics units to handle data generated by onboard systems,

  control the various functions of the vehicle, carry out commands sent from the ground or crew, and return telemetry data for
  insight into system status.



                                                                    NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-011 23
    •    Emergency Detection System. The SLS Program installed an autonomous monitoring system
         that uses the existing network of sensors and data-collecting instrumentation on the rocket to
         monitor the health of the vehicle systems. If the emergency detection system detects an
         impending anomaly, it is designed to trigger an abort faster than a human could manually
         perform, making it a critical element for human space flight. The SLS Program completed this
         system in June 2023 at a cost of $7.5 million.
    •    Booster Separation Motor Covers. The SLS Program upgraded the booster separation motor
         covers from aluminum to steel for the Artemis II mission to better protect this vulnerable area
         against debris impact. Each SLS booster includes 8 booster separation motors—for a total of
         16 per launch—that are designed to separate the boosters from the SLS core stage about
         2 minutes into flight. Booster separation allows the core stage to continue propelling the
         vehicle to orbit without the added mass of the fuel-depleted boosters. The SLS Program is
         scheduled to complete this upgrade in May 2024 at a cost of $1.4 million.


Issues Discovered During Qualification and Acceptance
Testing of Key Orion Components Led to Decision to
Delay Artemis II
NASA is required to test critical system performance prior to assembling and integrating the SLS and
Orion on the ML-1. 32 During qualification and acceptance testing of Orion’s circuitry and Crew Module
batteries, NASA uncovered hardware defects that increase crew safety risks. 33 Findings from these
tests, as well as ongoing work on the heat shield as previously discussed, were in large measure the
reasons NASA delayed the Artemis II mission to September 2025.
    •    Orion Circuitry Impacts to ECLSS. In August 2023, the Orion Program uncovered a hardware
         design deficiency with the circuitry used to command critical components of the Atmosphere
         Revitalization System, which removes carbon dioxide and trace contaminants from the cabin
         atmosphere and monitors the composition of the air. Of particular significance, these faulty
         circuits drive the valves for the removal of carbon dioxide from the crew cabin. The Program
         deemed this condition unsafe for human space flight because high levels of carbon dioxide can
         deplete breathable oxygen. As a result, NASA is working to make modifications to the circuitry
         hardware in difficult-to-access locations inside the assembled Orion spacecraft and perform
         additional tests to ensure operability.
    •    Orion Battery Impacts to Launch Abort. During functional testing of the Crew Module battery,
         the Agency identified electrical system performance deficiencies that could limit the four
         batteries’ ability to fully power the spacecraft to landing in the event of an abort, increasing the
         risk of crew loss. The Orion Program needs to complete a series of tests to determine the
         accuracy of the abort environments. The investigation into this issue is in the early stages, and
         NASA has not yet developed a path forward.




32 NASA Procedural Requirements 7123.1D, NASA Systems Engineering Processes and Requirements w/Change 1 (2023).

33 Qualification testing is a formal test conducted on flight-configured hardware for the purpose of qualifying the product

  design. Acceptance testing confirms flight hardware performs as qualified and is generally free of defects.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-011 24
Premature Stacking Could Create Risk of Cost Increases
and Additional Schedule Delays
Occurring at the VAB, stacking is the process in which all the various components of the SLS and Orion
are integrated on the ML-1. Stacking for the Artemis II mission begins with the SLS boosters, followed
by the core stage, launch vehicle stage adapter, Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage (ICPS), Orion stage
adapter, and umbilical mates. Once these pieces are integrated on the ML-1, EGS will roll the vehicle to
the launch pad for integrated testing and a tanking test. 34 After testing, EGS will roll the vehicle back to
the VAB, integrate the Artemis II Orion, and conduct additional integrated testing. See Figure 9 for a
depiction of the Artemis stacking process.

Figure 9: Artemis Stacking Process




Source: NASA.




34 During tanking operations, teams will load the SLS rocket with liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen, beginning with the rocket’s

  core stage and then the ICPS.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-011 25
Once stacking of the integrated systems begins, NASA must carefully monitor and track key Artemis II
hardware that has a limited operating life before it must be serviced or replaced. In particular, the SLS
solid rocket boosters—the first element in the stacking process—have a life of 12 months once stacked
in their upright position on the ML-1 in the VAB. 35 However, there are options to extend the stack life of
the boosters. For the Artemis I mission, although booster stacking began in November 2020, the Agency
was able to extend the booster stack life to accommodate a November 2022 launch. The ability to
extend booster stack life is based on actual hardware measurements of each individual booster. As
such, there is no guarantee that the life of the boosters for the Artemis II mission can be extended the
same amount of time as the Artemis I mission. Premature stacking of the Artemis II boosters could
exhaust their usable life requiring their replacement—a costly and time-consuming effort.

Unresolved issues from the Artemis I mission increase
the risk of delays that could put booster stack life in
jeopardy if NASA begins stacking before it fully
understands the extent to which system and
operational modifications are required for Artemis II.
For example, NASA has not yet established a course of
action and schedule to address Orion anomalies that
must be mitigated before Artemis II. As discussed
previously, the Artemis I test flight revealed
unexpected Orion heat shield char loss, separation
bolt melting and erosion, and power disruptions that
require mitigation. If the Agency determines it needs
to make a hardware design change on a system after
it begins stacking, unstacking could be costly and time
consuming, especially if the time to complete a
hardware modification outruns the limited lifespan of
stacked systems. Moreover, NASA requires complete system-level verification and validation testing
before assembly and integration with other systems. 36 As components undergo testing to confirm their
functionality, there is a risk of delays should issues arise, as evidenced by NASA’s decision to delay
Artemis II to address Orion life support system circuitry and Crew Module battery issues discovered
during recent testing. While NASA’s decision to push back the Artemis II launch date will provide the
Agency with more time to prepare for the first crewed mission, NASA will need to appropriately balance
its time frame for corrective actions with the start of stacking.




35 The SLS, Orion, and EGS programs are responsible for identifying, monitoring, and tracking key Artemis II limited operating

  life items (LOLI). LOLIs are time- or usage-based limitations on hardware that must be carefully monitored to ensure the
  useful life does not expire and become a threat to processing or mission success. The top three LOLIs that could have the
  biggest impact on Artemis II are (1) battery life; (2) the number of rollouts of the vehicle to the pad, for which the limit is
  seven; and (3) booster stack life.
36 NASA Procedural Requirements 7123.1D.




                                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General           IG-24-011 26
CONCLUSION

Safely returning humans to and from lunar orbit presents a set of unique challenges and risks that NASA
has not faced since the Apollo era. The Artemis II mission will serve as NASA’s first crewed test flight of
the integrated SLS, Orion, and ground systems and will include the first-time use of numerous critical
elements that will provide support to the crew both during launch and the mission. NASA utilizes flight
tests to examine how systems perform in their intended environment allowing the Agency to
confidently mitigate risks, certify system designs, and validate mission capabilities. While NASA officials
consider Artemis I an overall success, providing important data and lessons learned, the mission also
revealed significant technical issues that the Agency needs to address ahead of Artemis II. Most
importantly, identifying and mitigating the root cause of the Orion heat shield and separation bolt
melting and erosion issues will be crucial for the Agency moving forward.

To its credit, NASA management has expressed a commitment to understanding the root cause of the
heat shield char loss prior to the Artemis II launch. Moreover, the Agency is taking appropriate action to
address other issues that impact its launch readiness, including upgrades and modifications required to
support the addition of crew and testing and integration of the SLS, Orion, and ML-1. Moving the
Artemis II launch date to September 2025 allows the Agency additional time to investigate the Orion
heat shield and address newly discovered issues involving Orion’s circuitry and Crew Module batteries.
As NASA proceeds with preparation and system assembly for the Artemis II launch, any decisions
regarding how to mitigate Artemis I issues will need to be weighed against the ability to modify, remove,
or replace at-risk hardware if needed after stacking begins.

Human space flight by its very nature is inherently risky, and the Artemis campaign is no exception. We
urge NASA leadership to continue balancing the achievement of its mission objectives and schedule with
prioritizing the safety of its astronauts and to take the time needed to avoid any undue risk.




                                                          NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 27
RECOMMENDATIONS

To ensure the safety of the crewed Artemis II mission, we recommended the Associate Administrator for
Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate:
    1. Ensure the root cause of Orion heat shield char liberation is well understood prior to launch of
       the Artemis II mission.
    2. Conduct analysis of Orion separation bolts using updated models that account for char loss,
       design modifications, and operational changes to Orion prior to launch of the Artemis II mission.
    3. Require EGS conduct additional verification and validation for launch imagery equipment prior
       to launch attempts should launch conditions change.
    4. Reexamine procedures to better ensure recovery of Orion jettisoned hardware for the Artemis II
       mission.
    5. Develop a corrective action plan to mitigate or prevent the recurrence of uninterpretable Orion
       telemetry data for the Artemis II mission.
    6. Establish a course of action and timeline for individual Artemis system design changes before
       beginning integrated system assembly stacking operations.

We provided a draft of this report to NASA management who concurred with our recommendations and
described planned actions. We consider the proposed actions responsive and will close the
recommendations upon completion and verification. While the Agency noted that its planned actions
have been completed for Recommendations 4, 5 and 6, we were not provided evidence of these actions
prior to issuance of this report.

In addition to responding to the recommendations, the Agency provided comments on several concerns
it had with the audit. First, the Agency noted that “the report’s tone might suggest that the OIG [Office
of Inspector General] identified the risks discussed, when in fact, all recommendations were already
being addressed by NASA through forward risk-based disposition prior to the audit.” We agree NASA
had identified most of the risks we discuss in this report, and we noted that the Agency is taking
appropriate action to support the addition of crew and testing and integration of the SLS, Orion, and
ML-1. Nonetheless, final and definitive mitigation actions on these risks had not been completed at the
time of our reporting. In our judgment, completing these recommendations would better ensure the
safety of the crewed Artemis II mission.

Second, the Agency questioned the OIG’s role and qualifications in making what it characterizes as
“engineering recommendations.” The Agency further noted that “combining the roles of auditing and
engineering recommendations could result in conflicts of interest, compromise the integrity of existing
safety processes, and potentially decouple objective risk management in ongoing engineering
development.” We disagree. Providing timely recommendations aimed at further ensuring the safety of
astronauts in the upcoming Artemis II mission is not only well within the oversight role of the OIG but is
a vital responsibility of our office. We will continue to provide the level of oversight of the Artemis
campaign that we deem appropriate. That said, it is not our intention, nor have we attempted, to
replace the technical expertise of qualified individuals within ESDMD or the technical authority



                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 28
organizations which are staffed with experienced engineering and science professionals. Our analysis
relies on the documents and testimony of ESDMD officials and those from technical authority
organizations.

Third, the Agency noted its “objective to cooperate fully and provide OIG with access to information and
documentation relevant to their audits, evaluations, and investigations” as well as the time and effort
spent responding to activities associated with this audit. We appreciate ESDMD’s efforts in supporting
our work, and we were generally provided what we needed to complete the audit. Nonetheless, we
believe more efficient access to requested information would have significantly reduced the workload
for both the OIG and the Agency.

The Artemis campaign is NASA’s most high-profile ongoing activity involving both extraordinary costs as
well as missions that by their very nature put humans at risk. Given the high stakes, NASA OIG will
continue to exercise its statutory oversight role to increase the transparency of Artemis activities by
providing independent and objective analysis and information to the Agency, Congress, and the public.
Looking forward, we will continue to work with NASA in balancing the effort to support our oversight
role with the Agency’s important work in ensuring the success of the Artemis campaign.



Major contributors to this report include Ridge Bowman, Human Exploration Audits Director;
Deanna Lee, Assistant Director; Kelsey Dalton; Antonia Islas; Sarah McGrath; and Dimitra Tsamis.
Additionally, Amanda Perry provided editorial and graphics support, Cody Bryant provided data analytics
support, and Shani Dennis provided legal support.

If you have questions about this report or wish to comment on the quality or usefulness of this report,
contact Laurence Hawkins, Audit Operations and Quality Assurance Director, at 202-358-1543 or
laurence.b.hawkins@nasa.gov.
                     Digitally signed by
                     George Scott
                     Date: 2024.04.30
                     13:44:32 -04'00'
George A. Scott
Acting Inspector General




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 29
                                                                                              Appendix A




APPENDIX A: SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY
We performed this audit from February 2023 through February 2024 in accordance with generally
accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions
based on our audit objective. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our
findings and conclusions based on our audit objective.

In this report we examined NASA’s readiness for the Artemis II mission. To accomplish our objective, we
conducted interviews and had discussions with officials at NASA Headquarters, Marshall Space Flight
Center, and Johnson Space Center. Additionally, we conducted a site visit at Kennedy Space Center to
speak with program officials and observe post-Artemis I damage to ground facilities and preparations in
place for Artemis II.

To determine the extent to which NASA met its Artemis I objectives, we reviewed key documents to
evaluate mission performance as well as NASA’s mission coverage and preliminary flight reviews.
Additionally, we assessed NASA’s progress towards its Artemis I Post-Flight Assessment Review (PFAR)
and knowledge capture efforts. We did not review the Artemis I PFAR because some information within
the review was not yet finalized or reviewed by NASA management. As such, there may be other risks
regarding Artemis II readiness not identified within this report. However, to assess Artemis I mission
performance, we interviewed officials from ESDMD; the SLS, Orion, EGS, and SCaN programs; and other
internal and external technical experts and stakeholders from the Office of Safety and Mission
Assurance, Flight Operations Directorate, and the Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel.

To assess the Agency’s progress towards Artemis II, we examined each of the deep space exploration
systems’ performance reviews, planned schedules, risk analyses, mission integration reviews, and
quarterly program reviews. We also visited Kennedy Space Center and observed the impact of Artemis I
on launch facilities and the status of repairs, modifications, and upgrades to ground systems.
Additionally, we had discussions and interviewed members of the Office of Safety and Mission
Assurance, Office of the Chief Medical Officer, and the Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel to gain insight
into safety risks.


Assessment of Data Reliability
We did not use computer-processed data to perform this audit.


Review of Internal Controls
We assessed internal controls and compliance with requirements related to the Artemis campaign’s first
two missions. Control weaknesses are identified and discussed in this report. However, because our
review was limited to these internal control components and underlying principles and further limited
by our inability to assess the Artemis I PFAR, it may not have captured all internal control deficiencies
that existed at the time of this audit. Our recommendations, if implemented, will improve the identified
control weaknesses.




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 30
                                                                                             Appendix A



Prior Coverage
During the last 5 years, the NASA OIG and Government Accountability Office have issued 14 reports of
significant relevance to the subject of this report; they can be accessed at
https://oig.nasa.gov/audits/auditReports.html and https://www.gao.gov.

       NASA Office of Inspector General
NASA’s Management of the Artemis Supply Chain (IG-24-003, October 19, 2023)

Audit of NASA’s Deep Space Network (IG-23-016, July 12, 2023)

NASA’s Management of the Space Launch System Booster and Engine Contracts (IG-23-015,
May 25, 2023)

NASA’s Management of the Mobile Launcher 2 Contract (IG-22-012, June 9, 2022)

NASA’s Management of the Artemis Missions (IG-22-003, November 15, 2021)

Artemis Status Update (IG-21-018, April 19, 2021)

NASA’s Management of the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle Program (IG-20-018, July 16, 2020)

Audit of NASA’s Development of Its Mobile Launchers (IG-20-013, March 17, 2020)

NASA's Management of Space Launch System Program Costs and Contracts (IG-20-012, March 10, 2020)

       Government Accountability Office
Space Launch System: Cost Transparency Needed to Monitor Program Affordability (GAO-23-105609,
September 7, 2023)

NASA Lunar Programs: Improved Mission Guidance Needed as Artemis Complexity Grows
(GAO-22-105323, September 8, 2022)

NASA Lunar Programs: Moon Landing Plans Are Advancing but Challenges Remain (GAO-22-105533,
March 1, 2022)

NASA Human Space Exploration: Significant Investments in Future Capabilities Require Strengthened
Management Oversight (GAO-21-105, December 15, 2020)

NASA Human Space Exploration: Persistent Delays and Cost Growth Reinforce Concerns over
Management of Programs (GAO-19-377, June 19, 2019)




                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 31
                                                                                                         Appendix B



Appendix B: Management’s Comments

                    National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                    Mary W. Jackson NASA Headquarters
                    Washington, DC 20546-0001




Reply to Attn of:   Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate


                    TO:          Assistant Inspector General for Audits

                    FROM:        Associate Administrator for Exploration Systems Development Mission
                                 Directorate

                    SUBJECT: Agency Response to OIG Draft Report, “NASA’s Readiness for the Artemis II
                             Crewed Mission to Lunar Orbit” (A-23-07-00-HED)


                    The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) appreciates the opportunity to
                    review and comment on the Office of Inspector General (OIG) draft report entitled, “NASA’s
                    Readiness for the Artemis II Crewed Mission to Lunar Orbit” (A-23-07-00-HED), dated
                    March 13, 2024.

                    The anticipation surrounding Artemis II reflects the excitement, innovation, and collaborative
                    spirit driving NASA’s ambitious goals for the future of space exploration. The Artemis II
                    mission represents a significant milestone in NASA’s Artemis campaign and human space
                    exploration efforts, bringing us one step closer to returning humans to the Moon and
                    ultimately sending astronauts to Mars. NASA remains unwaveringly committed to ensuring
                    safe missions to the Moon, reflecting its dedication to the safety of astronauts, mission
                    success, and the advancement of human space exploration. The Exploration Systems
                    Development Mission Directorate (ESDMD) continuously learns from past missions and
                    incorporates lessons learned into future missions to enhance safety and performance.
                    Through post-mission analyses, assessments, and feedback mechanisms, ESDMD identifies
                    areas for improvement and implements corrective actions to optimize mission safety and
                    effectiveness.

                    ESDMD recognizes the critical role the OIG plays in evaluating whether there are instances
                    of waste, fraud, or abuse in the Federal Government. ESDMD is fully committed to
                    transparency and accountability. It is ESDMD’s objective to cooperate fully and provide
                    OIG with access to information and documentation relevant to their audits, evaluations, and
                    investigations. During this audit, ESDMD provided 617 products, attended eight requested
                    meetings, and conducted 17 hours of interviews. Altogether, this activity recorded an
                    estimated 700-725 hours of work from our ESDMD team. This commitment to transparency
                    underscores our dedication to upholding the highest standards of integrity and ethics in all
                    aspects of our work.

                    Being audited in the middle of a development process presents several challenges including
                    disruptions to ongoing workflow and priorities due to the reallocation of resources and the
                                                                    NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 | 32
                                                                                       Appendix B




coordination challenges associated with audit activities. The dynamic nature of development
means that changes can occur rapidly, making it challenging to update information for audit
requirements that are based on a snapshot of the project at a specific point in time.

The Artemis I flight was designed as an uncrewed test to identify issues which might occur in
the integrated nature of this complex system that modeling or ground testing could not
predict. NASA expected to discover and resolve issues before Artemis II. This process of
finding and addressing engineering challenges is a natural part of the design-test-fix process.
NASA is concerned that the report’s tone might suggest that the OIG identified the risks
discussed, when in fact, all recommendations were already being addressed by NASA
through forward risk-based disposition prior to the audit.

NASA will continue to identify, assess, prioritize, and mitigate risks to maximize success.
While it is ESDMD’s understanding that the primary role of this audit was to assess and
ensure compliance with established standards, regulations, and best practices, ESDMD
observes this report and its recommendations to be more engineering focused than having a
scope of understanding our risk management. ESDMD is focused on ensuring that informed
engineering recommendations are provided by experienced individuals or teams with
specialized engineering knowledge and a comprehensive understanding of the development
context and risk trades. There is a concern that combining the roles of auditing and
engineering recommendations could result in conflicts of interest, compromise the integrity
of existing safety processes, and potentially decouple objective risk management in ongoing
engineering development. Furthermore, the Agency allocates resources to technical authority
organizations (including the Offices of the Chief Engineer and Safety and Mission
Assurance) in addition to a Congressionally mandated Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel,
both of which are staffed with experienced engineering and science professionals.

ESDMD recognizes the importance of the certification process and continues to emphasize
safety, reliability, and mission success, with a focus on mitigating risks and ensuring the
well-being of astronauts and personnel involved in spaceflight missions. ESDMD would
highlight that some of the recommendations listed in this report are considered outside of the
certification process. ESDMD and NASA are committed to ensuring the balance of risk
management processes across all programs.

In the draft report, OIG makes six recommendations to NASA designed to ensure the safety
of its lunar programs, including the Artemis II mission scheduled for September 2025.
ESDMD would like to emphasize that all these recommendations were already being
assessed in accordance with expectations documented in Exploration Systems Development
Mission Integration Implementation Plan, Artemis I Post Flight Analysis Review (PFAR)
Plan prior to the audit.

Specifically, the OIG recommends the Associate Administrator for ESDMD:




                                                  NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 | 33
                                                                                        Appendix B



Recommendation 1: Ensure the root cause of Orion heat shield char liberation is well
understood prior to launch of the Artemis II mission.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. Testing the heatshield performance was a
   key goal of the Artemis I flight. Evaluation of the heatshield’s performance, as well as
   the development of a root cause analysis and a plan for moving forward, had already
   begun before the start of the audit. NASA continues to make significant progress
   evaluating the root cause of the heatshield char loss. Ground testing successfully
   recreated char loss in the arc jet facility using large-scale test panels of full-size Avcoat
   blocks. The recreated char loss has the same features as observed on the Artemis I heat
   shield. The team is currently synthesizing the test results together with the leading theory
   for root cause and are planning formal presentations to the necessary technical forums in
   preparation for a recommendation to the Orion Program Control Board for Artemis II in
   April/May timeframe. The recommendation will include Artemis II heat shield
   operational capabilities based on the latest thermal analysis work. An Independent
   Review Team effort planned for May 2024 will confirm the team’s recommendations to
   the program on the root cause, heat shield capability, and corrective actions going
   forward.

   Estimated Completion Date: June 30, 2024

Recommendation 2: Conduct analysis of Orion separation bolts using updated models that
account for char loss, design modifications, and operational changes to Orion prior to launch
of the Artemis II mission.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. Evaluation of the separation bolts’
   performance, along with the development of a root cause analysis and a plan for future
   actions, had already commenced prior to the audit. The Orion Program is currently
   conducting analysis using updated models based on the findings of the heat shield char
   liberation investigation team. This analytical work is on track to be completed before the
   Artemis II mission.

   Estimated Completion Date: June 30, 2024

Recommendation 3: Require Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) conduct additional
verification and validation for launch imagery equipment prior to launch attempts should
launch conditions change.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. By conducting the Artemis I test flight,
   NASA gathered valuable data and experience that will help improve the design and
   operation of the Artemis II spacecraft and ultimately enhance the success of future
   missions. Per EGS’s standard requirements and processes, verification and validation
   activities are conducted prior to an operation to ensure the configuration is understood,
   that it meets the requirements, and that the system performs as intended by the user. As
   part of the Artemis I Imagery Deficiency Tiger Team, which was initiated in January
   2023, prior to this audit, EGS has identified and is implementing corrective actions
   including camera control software enhancements, procedural updates, testing approaches,

                                                   NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 | 34
                                                                                     Appendix B




   and workforce training and certification improvements. The launch imagery software,
   procedures, and personnel will be exercised and proven through Artemis II preparation
   events to include Mobile Launcher (ML)/Pad Ignition Overpressure Protection and Sound
   Suppression and Fire Suppression System Launch Cooling Test Integrated System
   Verification and Validation (ISVV-2), ML/Pad Imagery Demonstration (ISVV-6), and
   the Artemis II Tanking Test.

   Estimated Completion Date: September 30, 2024

Recommendation 4: Reexamine procedures to better ensure recovery of Orion jettisoned
hardware for the Artemis II mission.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. NASA conducted the Artemis I test flight to
   ensure the safety, reliability, and performance of its spacecraft and systems. This test
   flight allowed NASA to identify and mitigate potential issues that may arise during actual
   missions. Concurrence is based on the action of utilizing the Agency’s process of
   conducting a PFAR of Artemis I, which was conducted prior to this audit report. Both
   the Orion and EGS programs have determined that the plans and procedures of the EGS
   Recovery Team are accurate and Orion requirements have been revised to clarify the
   requirements for jettison hardware recovery. If the hardware does not sink before
   recovery forces arrive on-site, the recovery team will make every effort to recover the
   hardware. The Orion program will assess whether flotation capability needs to be added
   for future missions to assist in recovery.

   Estimated Completion Date: Completed

Recommendation 5: Develop a corrective action plan to mitigate or prevent the recurrence
of uninterpretable Orion telemetry data for the Artemis II mission.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. This action has already been implemented.
   The Orion Program submitted a corrective action plan on February 17, 2024, to the OIG
   indicating that this recommendation can be closed.

   Estimated Completion Date: Completed

Recommendation 6: Establish a course of action and timeline for individual Artemis
system design changes before beginning integrated system assembly stacking operations.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. This action is already being implemented as
   part of normal processes and can be closed. The Moon to Mars Program (M2M)
   routinely monitors the progress of Artemis II hardware and software, including the status
   of system design changes, verification and validation testing, necessary operational
   modifications, and resolutions for any anomalies. Each individual system design change
   for Artemis II will undergo a design certification process, culminating in design
   certification reviews at the program level (Orion, Space Launch System, EGS).


                                                NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 | 35
                                                                                      Appendix B


   Additionally, M2M will conduct a design certification review for the integrated system.
   As Artemis II stacking is currently projected to commence before the completion of the
   design certification reviews, M2M will conduct a checkpoint before the start of Artemis
   II stacking. This checkpoint will evaluate the status of hardware and software across
   M2M, including design changes, verification and validation testing, operational changes,
   anomaly resolutions, and limited life items. It will determine if M2M is prepared to
   begin stacking operations, considering any ongoing work, and outstanding risks. After
   the integrated system design certification review, M2M will conduct the Artemis II
   operational readiness review and proceed with the flight certification process.

   Estimated Completion Date: Completed


NASA is dedicated to continuous enhancement of our processes and procedures to ensure
safety and address potential risks and deficiencies. However, the redundancy in the above
recommendations does not help to ensure whether NASA’s programs are organized,
managed, and implemented economically, effectively, and efficiently.

NASA remains committed to flying safely and looks forward to a successful Artemis II
mission that continues to push the boundaries of human achievement, scientific discovery,
and the advancement of space exploration.

We have reviewed the draft report for information that should not be publicly released. As a
result of this review, we have not identified any information that should not be publicly
released.

Once again, thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the subject draft report.
If you have any questions or require additional information regarding this response, please
contact Christine Solga at (202) 358-1238.

CATHERINE Digitally signed by
          CATHERINE KOERNER

KOERNER Date:    2024.04.19
          13:17:27 -05'00'

Catherine Koerner
Associate Administrator for Exploration Systems Development
 Mission Directorate




                                                 NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 | 36
                                                                                             Appendix C




APPENDIX C: REPORT DISTRIBUTION
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Administrator
Deputy Administrator
Associate Administrator
Chief of Staff
Associate Administrator for Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate
Associate Administrator for Space Operations Mission Directorate
Moon to Mars Program Manager
Exploration Ground Systems Program Manager
Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle Program Manager
Space Launch System Program Manager
Space Communications and Navigation Program Manager


Non-NASA Organizations and Individuals
Office of Management and Budget
    Deputy Associate Director, Climate, Energy, Environment and Science Division
Government Accountability Office
   Director, Contracting and National Security Acquisitions


Congressional Committees and Subcommittees, Chairman
and Ranking Member
Senate Committee on Appropriations
   Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
   Subcommittee on Space and Science
Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
House Committee on Appropriations
   Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
House Committee on Oversight and Accountability
   Subcommittee on Government Operations and the Federal Workforce
House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
   Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight
   Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics


   (Assignment No. A-23-07-00-HED)




                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-011 37
