NI 43-101”).
                                                                                                                 3|P a g e
    The RapidSX™
    Program
    Description of the             In 2023 the Company completed the formal commissioning program of its 52-Stage
    project, including the         RapidSX™ REE Commercial Demonstration Plant ("Demo Plant") within the
    Company’s short and            Company’s Commercialization and Demonstration Facility ("CDF") in Kingston, ON.
    long-term plans for the
                                   With commissioning complete, the Company shifted its focus in 2024 to include
    project and the status of
    the project relative to        demonstrating the commercial efficacy of the RapidSX™ technology platform for the
    those plans:                   separation and purification of REEs utilizing the Demo Plant as compared head-to-head
                                   versus a Conventional Solvent Extraction (“CSX”) Pilot Circuit. This past and current
                                   work includes the completion of the Demo Plant commissioning trials over hundreds of
                                   runtime hours followed by thousands of runtime hours in demonstration trials mode.
                                   The primary objective of the trials is to produce consistent REE sub-groups and
                                   products2 (from multiple feedstocks) at specifications sufficient to assess the
                                   efficiencies and benefits of the RapidSX™ technology versus the results of the
                                   concurrent trials taking place on the traditional CSX Pilot Circuit. This includes a
                                   commercial-scale techno-economic assessment of the RapidSX™ separation and
                                   purification process, including capital and operating costs. Concurrently, but slightly
                                   lagging the RapidSX™ Program, the Company is incorporating the RapidSX™
                                   technology platform into the specific engineering and design packages for its first
                                   commercial-scale SMC planned for Louisiana.

                                   The RapidSX™ Program is being led by the Company’s CEO and Chairman, Pat Ryan,
                                   P.Eng., and the Company’s Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer, Mike Schrider,
                                   P.E., in conjunction with Dr. Boyd Davis and Mr. Alain Roy, principals of Kingston
                                   Process Metallurgy Inc. ("KPM"), supported by additional technical expertise that Ucore
                                   and IMC have engaged for the RapidSX™ Program. KPM is Ucore’s and IMC’s
                                   research, development, and commercialization partner and will be supporting all
                                   aspects of the technical work to finalize the commercialization program required to scale
                                   up the RapidSX™ technology for commercial deployment into the SMCs.

                                   The Company had originally planned to construct an 18-stage RapidSX™ REE demo
                                   plant for the separation of HREEs from LREEs. However, in early 2022, the Company
                                   received very positive results from the independent RapidSX™ technology evaluation,
                                   including the conclusion that a RapidSX™ production plant can potentially have one-
                                   third the footprint of a CSX production plant with the same throughput. The Company
                                   then expanded the design and construction of the Demo Plant to the now single
                                   machine 52-stage3 design for the separation of many different feedstocks to virtually
                                   any one particular target REE element or group.

                                   The single machine 52-stage RapidSX™ Demo Plant is designed and constructed to
                                   process:

                                        1. Many different feedstock sources, including all planned LREE and HREE
                                             chemical concentrates for the Louisiana SMC;

                                        2. Tens of tonnes of mixed rare earth concentrates on a per-annum basis,
                                             including products for prospective metal/alloy makers and original equipment
                                             manufacturer (“OEM”) qualifications; and

                                        3. All RapidSX™ splits required to produce individual praseodymium (Pr),
                                             neodymium (Nd), samarium (Sm), gadolinium (Gd), terbium (Tb), dysprosium
                                             (Dy) and / or yttrium (Y) - including the NdPr compound.

                                   The short-term (12 months) objectives of the current RapidSX™ Program include the
                                   continuation of:




2
    NdPr, Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd, Tb, Dy, and Y rare earth compounds and elements.
3
    Comprising of all of the unit operations of solvent extraction chemistry - extract, scrub, strip, wash and saponification.
                                                                                                                             4|P a g e
                                 1.   Continued validation of the RapidSX™ applied chemistry at commercial
                                      demonstration-scale under semi-continuous conditions through the robust
                                      processing features of the Demo Plant;

                                 2.   Continued validation of the physical design of the RapidSX™ platform at
                                      commercial demonstration-scale over thousands of Demo Plant runtime
                                      hours;

                                 3.   Continually enhancing the program of continuous improvement to ensure that
                                      the Company is incorporating the knowledge and experience gained through
                                      operating the Demo Plant;

                                 4.   Validation of the specific process flowsheets/programming developed for a
                                      particular REE feedstock, including multiple US-friendly sourced commercial
                                      REE feedstocks currently under consideration;

                                 5.   Initial generation of REE product qualification samples for potential customers
                                      for independent evaluation;

                                 6.   Confirmation testing of the full-size RapidSX™ components for the Louisiana
                                      SMC;

                                 7.   Creation of design and construction inputs required for the design of a
                                      commercial-scale RapidSX™ HREE and LREE separation facility i.e., "copy
                                      and paste" all knowledge gained and lessons learned to the Louisiana SMC;
                                      and

                                 8.   Development of a detailed techno-economic assessment of RapidSX™ based
                                      separation, as part of the commercialization process.

                             The long-term (12-36 months) objectives of the current the RapidSX™ Program include:

                                 1.   Demonstrate the successful process qualification of any feedstock destined
                                      for an SMC at the Demo plant over hundreds of runtime hours for each planned
                                      RapidSX™ production circuit. Transfer the knowledge gained to the full-scale
                                      SMC design, construction, commissioning, qualifications, and operating
                                      processes;

                                 2.   Utilize the Demo Plant for SMC operator training; and

                                 3.   Concurrently with the Demo Plant qualification process of REE feedstocks,
                                      focus the attention of RapidSX™ technology development to other critical
                                      metals.

The expected timeline of     Since the Company completed its acquisition of IMC in May 2020, a significant amount
the project, including the   of work has been planned and/or performed to advance the RapidSX™ Program,
Company’s progress           including:
compared to the
timeline:
                             Technical:

                                 1.   Engaging KPM as IMC’s long-term               research,   development,     and
                                      commercialization partner: Q2-2020;

                                 2.   Continuous development of the CDF in Kingston, ON: Q2-2020 through at
                                      least Q4-2027;

                                 3.   Completing the RapidSX™ initial technical-validation and optimization
                                      program on the constructed research & development apparatus (the
                                      "Research Rig"): Q2-2020 to Q3-2022;



                                                                                                          5|P a g e
                             4.   KPM's participation with AIDEA in the execution of Dr. Ahmad Ghahreman's
                                  independent assessment of the RapidSX™ technology platform: Q3-2021 to
                                  Q2-2022;

                             5.   Designing, constructing, operating and continuously improving the 52-Stage
                                  RapidSX™ REE Commercial Demonstration Plant ("Demo Plant") within the
                                  CDF: Q2-2022 through at least Q4-2027;

                             6.   Designing, constructing, and operating the 52-stage CSX mixer settler pilot-
                                  scale circuit (the "CSX Pilot Circuit"): Q2-2022 through at least H2-2026
                                  (extended from Q4-2025);

                             7.   Demo Plant commissioning trials: Q1-2023 to Q4-2023;

                             8.   Conducting the formal techno-economic assessment program for the
                                  commercial deployment of the RapidSX™ technology platform: Q2-2023
                                  through at least H1-2026 (extended from Q4-2025);

                             9.   Expanding the focus of the RapidSX™ technology platform to other critical
                                  metals: Q2-2026 through at least Q4-2027;

                             10. Commencement of the "Copy and Paste" technology template to transfer the
                                 engineering, construction, commissioning, and product qualification data from
                                 the Demo Plant to the full-scale Louisiana SMC: Q2-2022 through Q4-2027
                                 (extended from Q4-2025);

                             11. Demo Plant product qualification trials: Q4-2023 through at least Q4-2027; and

                             12. SMC operator training at the Demo Plant: Q2-2026 (extended from Q4-2025)
                                 through at least Q4-2027.

                         Business:

                             1.   Working directly with US-registered lobbyist J.A. Green & Company and US
                                  municipal, state, and federal government entities to advance various initiatives
                                  related to the Demo Plant and the future SMCs;

                             2.   Working directly with Canadian municipal, provincial, and federal government
                                  entities and/or representatives to advance various initiatives related to the
                                  Demo Plant and future potential SMCs; and

                             3.   Significant business developments with multiple upstream and downstream
                                  prospective partners, suppliers and customers toward the establishment of a
                                  North American REE supply chain, focusing on Ucore’s and IMC’s role with
                                  mid-stream processing and RapidSX™: Q2-2020 to current.

The expenditures made    During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company incurred net research and
on the project to date   development expenditures of approximately $7.54 million compared to approximately
and during the period:   $5.45 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Research and development
                         expenditures relate to amortization, consulting and professional services, facility and
                         equipment expenditures, laboratory and analytical expenses, labour, process feedstock
                         and reagents, supplies, consumables and materials, and other expenses to further
                         advance the Company’s RapidSX™ technology and are recorded net of any recoveries
                         from government assistance and tax credits. A breakdown of material components of
                         the Company’s research and development expenditures period over period is presented
                         below in the Research and Development Expenditures section.




                                                                                                       6|P a g e
 Previously issued           The Company has completed all project milestones (including all HREE objectives)
 forward-looking             under the initial OT Agreement with the Department of Defense demonstration trials as
 information about the       further described in the U.S Department of Defense Government Funding Award
 project that is hereby
                             section below.
 being updated and a
 discussion of the events
 and circumstances that      It was anticipated that project costs to complete the project would have been $9.75
 occurred during the         million as previously disclosed. The project has now been completed at a total gross
 period that caused the      cost of approximately $10.5 million. The increase relative to the previously disclosed
 actual results to differ    estimate primarily reflects higher input and operating costs, adjustments to project
 from the previously         scheduling, and incremental work required to complete certain aspects of the program.
 disclosed forward-
 looking information:
                             The total net cost to the Company (after the US government funding) will be
                             approximately $4.89 million.

 The anticipated timing      The Company’s next project relates to its $4.28 million contribution agreement with the
 and costs to take the       Government of Canada, as further described in the Government of Canada Contribution
 project to the next stage   Section below. The project supports the demonstration of the Company’s RapidSX™
 of the project plan:
                             rare earth element separation technology for light REEs. The total project budget is
                             approximately $8.3 million, of which up to $4,275,848 is eligible for reimbursement.

                             As at December 31, 2025, the Company had incurred $1,708,665 in reimbursable
                             eligible expenditures, with $2,567,183 remaining available to be claimed. The project is
                             to be completed by March 31, 2026, following a prior extension. The Company is
                             currently in discussions with NRCan regarding a potential further extension, and
                             advancement of the remaining project activities is contingent on securing this extension.

 The license(s) and          No required licenses or regulatory approvals are associated with the RapidSX™
 regulatory approval(s)      technology development platform. Any licenses permits or approvals that are related to
 that the Company must       the operation of the CDF are the responsibility of KPM (the landlord and the Company’s
 obtain related to the
                             research, development, and commercialization partner).
 project and the next
 milestone:



United States Patent Application

During the year ended December 31, 2023, IMC filed a United States Provisional Patent application for its
RapidSX™ technology. In February 2024, IMC submitted the subsequent application for an international Patent
Cooperation Treaty (PCT) filing. In August of 2025, IMC began the National Phase Jurisdiction entry filings in dozens
of countries. The process remains “patent pending” and is ongoing.

Mech-Chem Associates, Inc. – SMC Engineering

The Company continues its engagement with Mech-Chem Associates, Inc. (“Mech-Chem”) to develop the specific
process engineering requirements for stages of the planned SMCs, in conjunction with other consultants and the
Company’s and IMC's engineering personnel. Additionally, Mech-Chem has incorporated its developed pre-and
post-RapidSX™ process engineering into the design of the Demo Plant to ensure a truly seamless ramp up to the
SMC’s full-scale engineering package. The Company has constructed the Demo Plant within a 5,000-square-foot
building at KPM's facilities in Kingston, ON. This concept of building a REE-processing plant within an existing
building is the go-forward engineering and construction template for the process that the Company will replicate to
create the full-scale Louisiana SMC.

The SMC Business Model

Since the Company's May 8, 2020, acquisition of IMC and its proprietary RapidSX™ metals separation technology,
the Company has focused on a definitive commercialization pathway to achieve a secure, economic, REE supply
chain in North America – starting with securing mid-stream REE processing. As critical as the establishment of a
complete North American REE supply chain is, it must be achieved in the shortest time frame possible and with the
lowest possible capital and operating costs. The Company's business plan is focused entirely on near-term North
American REE independence, by establishing mid-stream REE processing and production capacity to cost-
effectively transform US-friendly-sourced REE feedstocks into made in North America finished rare earth oxides
“REOs”.



                                                                                                           7|P a g e
On October 6, 2020, the Company introduced its ALASKA2023 business plan centered around the construction of
an Alaska SMC founded on the RapidSX™ separation technology platform. In early 2022, it became apparent that
additional SMCs are required to truly establish an independent North American REE supply chain and that given
the projected rate of automotive electrification, the first SMC should be established in a "brownfield" facility
surrounded by significant business infrastructure. Therefore, the Company expanded its SMC business model to
now include additional SMCs and has strategically selected Alexandria, Louisiana, for the location of its first SMC.
Alaska and/or Canada (Ontario, Saskatchewan and/or Nova Scotia) are the prospective locations for additional
SMCs.

 The LSMC Program
 Description of the          On October 17, 2022, the Company announced that it had entered into a mutual
 project, including the      commitment with the US State of Louisiana toward the establishment of the Company's
 Company’s short and         first SMC REE separation facility - the Louisiana SMC ("LSMC"). Since the spring of
 long-term plans for the
                             2022, the Company had been engaged with the state and numerous local economic
 project and the status of
 the project relative to     development agencies and communities as it worked through the down-selection process
 those plans:                from twenty potential existing brownfield facilities across the state to the selected
                             Alexandria facility based on the following criteria:

                                 1.   Commercial considerations;
                                 2.   Engineering fitness and expansion capabilities;
                                 3.   Environmental assessment and permitting;
                                 4.   Community integration; and
                                 5.   Government incentives (as further described below)

                             On April 6, 2023, Ucore announced that the State of Louisiana had increased its incentive
                             offer to $20+ million and the Company had selected an 80,800-square-foot brownfield
                             facility within the England Airpark in Alexandria, LA, as the location for its planned
                             Louisiana SMC REE separation and oxide production facility. The England Airpark is the
                             former England Air Force Base and, since 1992, has been run by the England Authority.
                             The mission of the England Authority is to create jobs for central Louisiana.

                             On January 4, 2024, the Company announced that it has entered into a lease with the
                             England Economic and Industrial Development District (“EEIDD”) at its England Airpark
                             complex for a multi-decade lease arrangement to ensure the long-term viability of the
                             LSMC and continued employment opportunities for the residents of Rapides and the
                             surrounding parishes. Simultaneously, the Company subleased the facility through
                             January 2025. The facility is an 80,800-square-foot brownfield facility on a 10.7-plus-acre
                             industrial parcel for the development of the Company’s first commercial REE processing
                             facility. Additionally, the EEIDD has committed to providing US$360,000 of grant funding
                             over 24 months to reduce the Company’s initial lease obligations to the England
                             Authority. This rate reduction has commenced upon the expiration of the sub-lease in Q1
                             of 2025. The communities of central Louisiana have an available work force of over
                             114,000 persons within an hour's drive of the LSMC.

                             The LSMC is being developed around the Company's proprietary RapidSX™ technology
                             platform, representing North America's first REE processing center based on 21 st century
                             separation technology. It is expected to receive REE feedstock from several US-friendly
                             nations and it is expected to produce the individual REOs required for fabricating rare
                             earth permanent magnets used in electric motors and generators, thus forming a
                             significant part of North America's developing independent REE supply chain.

                             The LSMC Program, is being led by the Company’s CEO and Chairman, Pat Ryan,
                             P.Eng., and the Company’s Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer, Mike Schrider,
                             P.E., and is highly integrated with the RapidSX™ Program. This includes KPM, Mech-
                             Chem, other technical consultants and the Company’s internal resources. The Company
                             is now engaging with architects, engineers and contractors familiar with executing
                             projects in Alexandria, Louisiana, and with the CDF, joint product qualification and
                             verification trials of feedstocks are underway for the LSMC.

                             The Company will "copy and paste" all knowledge gained from the RapidSX™ Program
                             at the CDF to the LSMC.

                             Subject to available financing, the short-term (12 months) objectives of the current LSMC
                             Program include:
                                                                                                            8|P a g e
                                     1.  Secure US-friendly feedstock sources for early production opportunities;
                                     2.  Secure financing, including pre-purchase and supply offtake agreements with
                                         OEM-automotive companies and similar downstream users of REEs;
                                     3. Finalizing the Stages 1-3 contract design engineering and estimating packages;
                                     4. Commence the RapidSX™ Machine No. 1 and Stage 1 detail design
                                         engineering and estimating packages through the Louisiana-centric engineering
                                         and construction team;
                                     5. Order and receive long lead materials and equipment for RapidSX™ Machine
                                         No. 1 and Stage 1;
                                     6. Establish the required personnel and business infrastructure in Louisiana,
                                         taking advantage of LED’s FastStart assistance benefits program;
                                     7. Secure permitting required to initiate construction (air) and commence
                                         production (water and solid discharges, building, etc.);
                                     8. Commence RapidSX™ Machine No. 1 construction and testing activities;
                                     9. Finalize Stage-1 engineering activities, and
                                     10. Initiate Stage-1 construction.

                                 Subject to available financing, the long-term (12-60 months) objectives of the current
                                 RapidSX™ development program include:
                                      1. Complete RapidSX™ Machine No. 1 construction, testing, commissioning and
                                          demonstration activities;
                                      2. Finalize Stage-1 procurement, construction, commissioning, and OEM product
                                          qualifications;4
                                      3. Initiate Stage-1 production;
                                      4. Finalize Stage-2 engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, and
                                          OEM product qualifications;5
                                      5. Initiate Stage-2 production;
                                      6. Finalize Stage-3 engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, and
                                          OEM product qualifications;6
                                      7. Initiate Stage-3 production;
                                      8. Secure final required permits;
                                      9. Secure additional feedstock sources; and
                                      10. Secure partner relationships for metal/alloy and magnet production
                                          opportunities.
    The expected timeline of     Establishment of a single RapidSX™ machine at the LSMC facility in H1 2027, with
    the project, including the   early production readiness in H1 2027, is the objective of the Company as the first step
    Company’s progress           of the Company’s SMC business model – this entails:
    compared to the
    timeline:
                                 Technical:
                                     1. Finalizing the RapidSX™ scale-up design and RapidSX™ technology platform
                                         Factory Acceptance Testing (FAT) at the CDF: Q2-2025 through H1-2026;
                                     2. Finalize the RapidSX™ Machine No. 1 engineering design package: Q2-2025
                                         through H1-2026;
                                     3. Permitting, procurement, construction, testing, and commissioning (RapidSX™
                                         Machine No. 1 only): Q2-2025 to H1-2027;
                                     4. Commissioning and product qualification trials7 (RapidSX™ Machine No. 1
                                         only): H1-2027; and
                                     5. Establish early production readiness (RapidSX™ Machine No. 1 only): 2027.

                                 Business:
                                     1. Secure a second US-friendly feedstock for RapidSX™ Machine No. 1
                                         operations: H2-2025 to H2-2026;
                                     2. Establish an Alexandria corporate infrastructure8 and workforce for RapidSX™
                                         Machine No. 1 operation: Q2-2025 to H2-2026 (extended from H1-2026);
                                     3. Working directly with US-registered lobbyist J.A. Green & Company and US
                                         municipal, state, and federal government entities and representatives to
                                         advance various initiatives; and


4
  Stage 1 = 2,000 tpa TREO throughput.
5
  Stage 2 = 5,000 tpa TREO throughput.
6
  Stage 3 is targeted for 10,000 tpa REO throughput.
7
  Enhanced by identical feedstock qualification trials and knowledge transfer at/from the Kingston CDF.
8
  The Company has established the Louisiana domiciled and wholly owned business entity, Ucore North America, LLC, as the
entity to develop and operate the LSMC.
                                                                                                                9|P a g e
                                    4.   Significant business developments with multiple upstream and downstream
                                         prospective partners toward the establishment of a North American REE supply
                                         chain, starting with mid-stream processing and RapidSX™: Q2-2020 to current.

    The expenditures made       During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company capitalized expenditures of
    on the project to date      $784,564 (December 31, 2024 - $128,516) relating to engineering and design of the
    and during the period:      LSMC.
    Previously issued           As previously disclosed, due to slowed re-scaled automotive OEM electric vehicle roll-
    forward-looking             out schedules, global economic concerns, and a dramatically changing worldwide rare
    information about the       earth industry, the Company’s pre-purchase and supply financing and project execution
    project that is hereby
                                timelines continue to face delays. In addition, lessons learned with the Demo Plant and
    being updated and a
    discussion of the events    improvements to design and construction details for the LSMC, as well as inflation and
    and circumstances that      anticipated feedstock costs have resulted in an update to the total CAPEX of Stage 1
    occurred during the         production and initial feedstock acquisition from US$80 million to US$95 million, including
    period that caused the      the commissioning feedstock (which can become saleable goods).
    actual results to differ
    from the previously         The Company has extended the timelines for certain project activities. These changes
    disclosed forward-          were primarily influenced by prevailing market conditions and the Company’s ability to
    looking information:
                                secure necessary feedstock, capital and financing. As a result, the previously disclosed
                                forward-looking information about the project and related timelines has been updated to
                                reflect these adjustments.

    The anticipated timing      US$959 Million to get to Stage 1 production and initial sale delivery, as noted above.
    and costs to take the
    project to the next stage
    of the project plan:
    The license(s) and          The Company has conducted preliminary meetings with the State of Louisiana's
    regulatory approval(s)      Department of Environmental Quality regarding its prospective air, water and solid
    that the Company must       discharge permits and has received and expedited permitting pathway in its offer from
    obtain related to the
                                LED. Additionally, the England Authority is responsible for all other required building
    project and the next
    milestone:                  permits.

                                The next permitting milestone will be the submission of a “minor air” permit applications
                                to the Department of Environmental Quality (the “DEQ”) upon finalization of the process
                                engineering design package.
    Description of the risks    The noted permits are required to operate the LSMC. With the declared expedited
    associated with not         permitting support of LED and the England Authority as the local permitting authority, the
    obtaining the required      Company has selected a project location which mitigates the permitting risk of the LSMC
    license(s) and regulatory
                                Project. However, any delay in receiving a required permit will likely delay the LSMC
    approval(s):
                                from going into operation.


Letter of Intent from Louisiana Economic Development (“LED”)

As the result of a larger than originally anticipated facility selection, the Company is targeting the expansion of its
maximum production rate from 5,000 to 10,000 tonnes per annum (“tpa”) of total rare earth oxide (“TREO”)
throughput. In turn, the Company has received and accepted an amended non-binding letter of intent from LED.
This letter of intent added a potential US$900,000 grant for infrastructure costs in consideration of the Company’s
updated 10,000-tonne-per-annum facility (at Stage 3) with a projected minimum of at least US$75 million capital
expenditure investment and 100 family wage paying jobs for the fully completed LSMC - bringing the total potential
value of state grants, tax incentives, payroll rebates, and customized employment recruitment and training to US$15
million. Moreover, LED estimates the project will result in 298 new indirect jobs, for a total of 398 new jobs in central
Louisiana.

The financial, economic and tax incentive offers described in the letter of intent are estimates based on the
Company's commitment to and fulfillment of its capital investment schedules for the LSMC. This includes (i) a total
capital investment by the Company for the Louisiana SMC of at least US$75 million by December 31, 2027; The
Company and the State of Louisiana recently eliminated the original jobs and payroll requirement per updated
guidance from Louisiana in combination with current project timelines. While the overall capital investment,
employment, and development plans and LED benefits for the LSMC remain unchanged.


9
 Estimated stage 1 facility CAPEX of US$65 million and an estimated US$30 million in commissioning feedstock acquisition
costs.
                                                                                                                10 | P a g e
Louisiana's industrial tax exemption program can offer up to a 10-year tax exemption to the Company. LED
estimates that the exemption may result in up to US$8.2 million in tax savings for the Company. The state's industrial
tax exemption program is administered by the Louisiana Board of Commerce and Industry and required approvals
from parish and municipal governing bodies, as well as the parish school board. The Company has received the
final approved Contract for Exemption of Ad Valorem Taxes from the State of Louisiana.

Louisiana's quality jobs program provided a 4% or 6% payroll rebate on the gross annual payroll for qualifying new
jobs for up to 10 years. The program also refunds state sales/use tax paid on construction materials purchased
during construction or a 1.5% project facility expense rebate on certain capital expenditures. LED estimates that the
value of this program could be up to US$4.5 million for the Company. The quality jobs program is administered by
and will be subject to a contract to be finalized between the Company and the Louisiana Board of Commerce and
Industry. The overall benefits of this program will be retained.

Louisiana's research and development tax credit program encourages businesses to establish or continue qualified
research and development activities within the state. The benefit is primarily tied to nationwide employment and
ranges from 5% to 30% on increases in qualified expenses. Company eligibility for the program is subject to the
statute and rules applicable to the program. The letter of intent contemplates the Company’s participation in the
program; however, the value of the benefits from the program will be determined later and will be dependent upon
the actual qualified expenses that the Company incurs.

Louisiana's small business loan and guarantee program facilitates capital accessibility for small businesses by
providing loan guarantees to banks and other small business lenders. The program is administered by the LED. The
letter of intent contemplates the Company’s participation in the program; however, the value of the benefits from the
program will be determined during future negotiations between the Company and LED.

The program provides a performance-based grant to be used for reimbursement of Company expenditures for
infrastructure costs. This will be administered pursuant to a co-operative endeavour agreement and requires
Company compliance with and adherence to the capital investment and employment and payroll commitments. LED
estimates the grant, based upon the needs of the facility, as well as the investment, employment and payroll
projections, could be for up to US$900,000, payable at US$400,000 upon the facility being placed into
operation/production with more than US$45-million in capital expenditures and 45 full-time employees on payroll
and US$300,000 after US$55-million in capital expenditures and 80 full-time employees on payroll, and US$200,000
after US$75-million in capital expenditures and 100 full-time employees.

The LED FastStart program offers substantial LED investment in customized employment recruitment and training
during the Company's period of employment ramp-up. LED estimates that FastStart may provide a benefit to the
Company of up to US$1.4 million. This program is underway.

The Company's final board of directors' approval is contingent on receiving the offered Louisiana incentive
packages.

Other Prospective SMC Business Model Partners

The Company has entered into various confidential discussions with several international companies, ranging from
early-stage conversations to executed non-binding letter of intent (“LOIs”) and memorandum of understanding
(“MOUs”). These discussions are progressing towards pre-purchase and supply agreements for LSMC REO
products and include due diligence activities such as reviewing the LSMC development plans. Additionally,
discussions are ongoing with potential offtake partners for REOs and/or metal alloys.

On April 20, 2022, the Company provided information on the execution of a MOU with thyssenkrupp Materials
Trading GmbH (“thyssenkrupp”). The MOU contemplates thyssenkrupp initially supplying a minimum of 1,000 tpa
of mixed rare earth carbonate for processing at the Company’s LSMC. The parties have agreed to work toward a
10-year binding contract for the continued and increasing supply of mixed rare earth carbonates for processing,
including the consideration of various marketing strategies.

On January 9, 2024, the Company announced that it has established a non-binding MOU with Defense Metals Corp.
(“Defense Metals”) to explore collaborative opportunities in advancing North American REE supply chain initiatives.
As part of this collaboration, Defense Metals sent a mixed rare earth carbonate sample to the Company’s RapidSX™
Demo Plant. The sample was generated during 2023 hydrometallurgical piloting test work performed on concentrate
produced by earlier flotation pilot plant testing of a 26-tonne bulk sample from Defense Metal's Wicheeda property
in British Columbia.




                                                                                                          11 | P a g e
On July 25, 2024, the Company announced that it has entered into a non-binding MOU with Cyclic Materials Inc.
(“Cyclic”) for the future supply of recycled mixed rare earth oxides (“rMREO”). The Company and Cyclic will work
together towards determining the potential of a long-term supply agreement, starting with Cyclic supplying trial
quantities of rMREO to the Company’s RapidSX™ Demo Plant. The ultimate objective of the MOU is to qualify
Cyclic’s product in the Company’s process and ensure the Company’s developing North American commercial REO
production output includes North American recycled content from Cyclic, as Cyclic's capacities scale.

On August 21, 2024, the Company announced that it has entered into a MOU with Meteoric Resources NL
(“Meteoric”) for the supply of 3,000 metric tonnes of TREO from Meteoric's forthcoming Caldeira rare earth ionic
clay project in the Minas Gerais state of Brazil to the Company’s LSMC.

Key provisions of the MOU:
    • During the term of the MOU, the parties will work toward establishing a binding definitive agreement for the
        supply of mixed rare earth carbonate from Caldeira to the LSMC.
    • Once the parties are in production, they envision that the Company will purchase a minimum quantity of
        3,000 Mt of TREO annually from Caldeira. This could represent over 900 Mt of NdPr, approximately 6 Mt
        of Tb and 24 Mt of Dy.
    • Both parties will support each other in the pursuit of financing and business development for their
        respective projects.

On September 4, 2024, ABx Group Ltd. (“ABx”) and the Company have executed a MOU that describes the
collaborative pathway ABx and the Company will advance to:

    •    A binding offtake agreement for the supply of a mixed rare earth carbonate by ABx to the Company; and
    •    An opportunity for the Company to invest in the ABx rare earth project in Tasmania.

ABx is an Australian public company headquartered in South Melbourne, Victoria, which has established an ionic
adsorption clay REE resource in northern Tasmania. The grades of the two key heavy rare earths, dysprosium and
terbium, are the highest of any clay-hosted rare earth resource in Australia and comparable with the highest in the
world. Metallurgical testing by the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (“ANSTO”) has
confirmed that samples from the resource have the highest ionic proportion of any clay-hosted rare earth resource
in Australia.
Key features of the MOU:

    •    ABx and the Company will work toward an arrangement for the preferred annual volume of intermediate
         rare earth product, which is envisaged to be an MREC, to be supplied by ABx to the Company:
              o The intent is for the Company to obtain first right of refusal for 50% of Abx’s annual volume for a
                   minimum period of five years, subject to the agreement of commercial terms.
    •    The parties will explore potential investment by the Company into the ABx rare earth project, as well as
         project finance opportunities for ABx and the Company’s projects, which may involve joint approaches to
         the companies active in the rare earth value chain, governments, institutional funds and private investors.
    •    ABx and the Company will collaborate to develop and optimize:
              o A comprehensive product flow sheet considering where best to implement collective project
                   efficiencies; and
              o A total project development strategy, including laboratory, pilot and demonstration plant testing.
    •    ABx and the Company will share information on global rare earth markets, particularly for the permanent
         magnet rare earths, with the objective of identifying opportunities for and mitigating risks to ABx and the
         Company’s projects.

On August 27, 2025, the Company announced the execution of a non-binding LOI with Critical Metals Corp. (“CMC”)
for a long-term offtake agreement to secure HREE feedstock from CMC's Tanbreez project in southern Greenland.
Under the terms of the proposed arrangement, CMC intends to supply the Company with a REE product from
Tanbreez over an initial 10-year term. This material will be used as feedstock for the Company’s SMC.

The LOI sets out the parties' intentions to negotiate and execute a definitive offtake agreement. Terms of the LOI
include the delivery of a mixed rare earth carbonate or oxide, with specifications to be agreed to, over a multiyear
term commencing on the later of July 1, 2027, or commercial production. The execution of a definitive offtake
agreement remains subject to customary conditions, including completion of due diligence, finalization of
commercial terms and necessary approvals.

On September 16, 2025, the Company announced the signing of a strategic technology collaboration agreement
with Metallium Limited (“Metallium”). The binding agreement is for a term of 12 months from the date of signing,
September 13, 2025. Each party will enter good faith discussions to explore the potential of a future commercial
                                                                                                        12 | P a g e
arrangement for future collaboration. Each party shall retain all rights to their technology and binding non-disclosure
agreements are in place between the parties. There are no commercial arrangements by way of fees or
consideration associated with this collaboration agreement. The primary objectives are:

    •    The formation of a strategic partnership with Metallium which will add to potential feedstock sources for the
         Company’s prospective SMC in Alexandria, Louisiana.
    •    Metallium’s Flash Joule Heating process provides an alternative to traditional sulfate leaching approaches
         to generating mixed rare earth products which will be suitable for refining using the Company’s
         RapidSXTM technology.
    •    A staged program is being developed combining Metallium’s front-end upgrading capability with the
         Company’s downstream RapidSX™ separation capacity, reflecting the complementary roles of each
         technology within the integrated flowsheet.

On October 31, 2025, the Company announced that it has entered into a non-binding Heads of Agreement (“HoA”)
with Wyloo Gascoyne Pty Ltd (“Wyloo”) and Hastings Technology Metals Ltd (“Hastings”) to:

    •    Establish a long-term supply pathway for Yangibana rare earth concentrate; and
    •    Evaluate hydrometallurgical processing options in the United States, with the Company’s prospective SMC
         in Louisiana as the priority location.

The HoA links Australian feedstock from the Yangibana Rare Earths and Niobium Project with US mid-stream
processing and separation at the Company’s prospective Louisiana SMC aligning with the Company’s objective to
establish a North American, ex-China rare earth supply chain and leverage the critical materials frameworks amid
unprecedented policy convergence with allied jurisdictions, notably the United States, Canada, and Australia.

On November 3, 2025, the Company announced the signing of a non-binding MOU with Vacuumschmelze GmbH
& Co. KG (“VAC”) and eVAC Magnetics LLC (“eVAC”) to develop a collaborative supply agreement for high-purity
REOs.

    •    eVAC Magnetics has completed construction of a rare earth permanent magnet manufacturing facility in
         Sumter County, South Carolina with support from the US DoD and a $111.9 million Qualifying Advanced
         Energy Project Tax Credit
    •    VAC also produces magnets at its facilities in Europe requiring rare earth oxides for product lines including
         neodymium-iron-boron (NdFeB) and Samarium-Cobalt (SmCo) permanent magnets.
    •    The MOU provides a means for eVAC and VAC to align with the Company for the supply of high-purity
         rare earth oxides which will be coordinated with the Company’s staged growth refining plans in Louisiana,
         USA and Ontario, Canada.

Bokan-Dotson Ridge, Alaska

In 2006, the Company acquired the right to the Bokan Mountain mineral property through five separate option
agreements to acquire a 100% interest in a parcel of unpatented mineral claims from underlying owners and through
staking a 100% interest in an additional parcel of prospective ground. The option agreements provide for the
Company to acquire a 100% interest in the optioned claims in exchange for total remaining payments of US$90,000.
The five vendors will retain Net Smelter Royalties ("NSR") ranging from 2% to 4% on their specific claims. The
Company has the right to purchase between 33% and 100% of the NSR for cash payments of US$500,000 to
US$1,000,000 per vendor. The staked claims, together with the exclusive option agreements, have the effect of
providing the Company with an effective 100% control of the Bokan Mountain mineral property.

 The Bokan Project in
 Alaska, USA
 Description of the          The Company’s Bokan Project is located on Prince of Wales Island, Alaska,
 project, including the      approximately 60 km southwest of Ketchikan, Alaska and 140 km northwest of Prince
 Company’s short and         Rupert, British Columbia, with direct ocean access to the western seaboard and the
 long-term plans for the
                             Pacific Rim. The project is situated in the Tongass National Forest, within an area set
 project and the status of
 the project relative to
                             aside for natural resource development.
 those plans:
                             On November 28, 2012, the Company reported the results of a PEA completed by Tetra
                             Tech of Vancouver, BC, regarding the Dotson Ridge Zone of the Company’s Bokan
                             Project in Southeast Alaska. A copy of this PEA (a NI 43-101 technical report) was filed
                             on SEDAR+ on March 14, 2013.

                                                                                                           13 | P a g e
                             On October 15, 2019, the Company issued a press release describing an updated
                             mineral resource estimate for the Bokan Project (now including the 2014 drill program
                             results) including the identification of the tonnes and the corresponding grades of
                             additional critical-metal co-product mineral resources. At a TREO cut-off grade of 0.40
                             percent, an additional 38.5 thousand tonnes of the critical and strategic metals, including
                             niobium (Nb), zirconium (Zr) beryllium (Be), hafnium (Hf), titanium (Ti) and vanadium (V)
                             were added to the mineral resource estimate at Bokan. The October 2019 study did not
                             increase the overall tonnage of the deposit relative to the Company’s May 2015 mineral
                             resource update; it only quantified the occurrence of co-product metals within the mineral
                             resource established in 2015. The Company does not consider the co-product resources
                             to be a “material change” to the Company.

                             In the past, the Company’s primary focus was the exploration and development of the
                             Bokan Project in Alaska, where the Company has incurred the majority of its mineral
                             exploration expenditures for the past several years. In recent years, more of the
                             Company’s time and expenses have been focused on developing the downstream
                             metallurgy component of its plan, which involves the development of mineral separation,
                             processing and metal purification technologies that can be utilized in its downstream
                             business objectives. The Company sees the metallurgy component as one of its priorities
                             since it is a potential bottleneck to implementing the full commercial production of the
                             upstream Bokan Project. Accordingly, the Company’s mineral exploration and
                             development expenses at the Bokan Project have been modest in the past few years.

The expected timeline of     The Company expects that the prospective development profile of the Bokan Project is
the project, including the   best implemented in the latter half of this decade after the Louisiana SMC and a North
Company’s progress           American centric REE supply chain is fully established.
compared to the
timeline:

The expenditures made        During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company incurred expenditures of
on the project to date       $30,000 for the preparation of updated technical reports and other consulting services,
and during the period:       compared to $45,277 in the prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2025, the
                             Company incurred environmental and permitting expenditures of $204,282 which
                             includes the general carrying costs of the property, compared to $326,188 in the prior
                             year. In total, during the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company incurred $234,282
                             in expenditures on the Bokan Project, compared to $371,465 in the prior year.

                             The Company capitalizes its mineral exploration and evaluation (“E&E”) expenditures. A
                             detailed schedule of the Company’s deferred E&E costs for the years ended December
                             31, 2025, and December 31, 2024, is included in Appendix “B” of this MD&A.

The anticipated timing       It was anticipated that the next milestone for the Bokan Project was to refresh the 2013
and costs to take the        PEA against the future expected back drop of a robust and independent North American
project to the next stage    REE supply chain supported by projects such as the Company's LSMC and perhaps an
of the project plan:
                             Alaska SMC. The estimated cost for this effort was between $150,000 and $300,000.
                             Work commenced in Q3-2023, with an updated PEA for the Bokan Project originally
                             anticipated in approximately 2025. However, in August 2025, the Company determined
                             it would be more appropriate to first complete an updated Mineral Resource Estimate
                             (“MRE”) rather than proceeding with a PEA update. The estimated cost of the MRE is
                             approximately $45,000, with completion targeted for H1-2026 (extended from Q4-2025).

The license(s) and           None required to update the MRE.
regulatory approval(s)
that the Company must
obtain related to the
project and the next
milestone:

Previously issued            In August 2025, the Company re-evaluated its planned technical work in light of current
forward-looking              project development priorities and determined that proceeding with an updated MRE
information about the        would better align with near-term objectives of the Company. As a result, the Company
project that is hereby
                             has deferred the completion of a PEA and is now advancing an updated MRE with
being updated and a
                                                                                                           14 | P a g e
 discussion of the events    completion anticipated in the first half of 2026, revised from the fourth quarter of 2025
 and circumstances that      due to additional time required to finalize the updated report.
 occurred during the
 period that caused the
 actual results to differ
 from the previously
 disclosed forward-
 looking information:


Qualified Persons

The technical disclosures in this section of this MD&A regarding the Bokan Project were written by the Company’s
management based upon information provided to the Company and approved by James Robinson, P. Geo., an
independent geologist with Aurora Geosciences.

Cautionary Notes

Please note that the Company’s PEA is preliminary in nature, that it includes inferred mineral resources that are
considered too speculative geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them that would enable
them to be categorized as mineral reserves, and there is no certainty that the PEA will be realized. Mineral resources
that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.

General Business Information

IMC Former Employee Litigation

On December 14, 2022, a former employee of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, IMC, filed a civil claim
against IMC and the Company for wrongful dismissal and breach of contract. The claim is derived from an
employment relationship between the former employee and IMC and the subsequent termination of this relationship.
The former employee is seeking $650,000, plus interest and costs. The Company believes that the action is without
merit and intends to fully defend its interest and take all other legal actions available to it. The parties have agreed
to settle the claim through arbitration, which remains ongoing. While arbitration was initially expected to conclude in
Q1 2025, the process has been extended, and a revised timeline has not yet been established. The outcome of this
claim cannot be determined at this time, and no provision has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements
for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024.

Change of Auditor

KPMG LLP, the Company’s former auditor, resigned as auditor of the Company effective August 8, 2025. The former
auditor did not express any modified opinions in the former auditor's reports on the consolidated financial statements
of the Company and there were also no reportable events as such term is defined in National Instrument 51-102.
On September 23, 2025, the Board of Directors appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) as the Company’s
auditor to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders.

Critical Minerals Innovation Fund

On January 21, 2025, the Company announced that it has been awarded $500,000 in partnership with Ontario’s
Critical Minerals Innovation Fund. The funding contribution is for the advancement of the continuous improvement
process at the Company’s RapidSX™ CDF. The Company receives payments based on project milestones. The
Company has successfully completed all project milestones and received the full $500,000 contribution.

Government of Canada Contribution Agreement

On November 20, 2023, the Company announced it had executed a $4.28 million contribution agreement with the
Government of Canada to demonstrate its RapidSX™ rare earth element separation technology capabilities. The
formal announcement of financing was announced through Natural Resources Canada’s (“NRCan”) Critical Minerals
Research, Development and Demonstration (“CMRDD”) program on February 5, 2024. The funding to be received
by the Company will be used to demonstrate the commercial efficacy of the Company's RapidSX™ technology
specifically for light REEs.




                                                                                                            15 | P a g e
Total eligible expenditures to be reimbursed further to the funding are budgeted at $4,275,848 out of the total project
budget of $8,308,441. The project is to be completed by March 31, 2026, following an extension from the original
completion date of March 31, 2025, and the eligible expenditures period runs from September 22, 2023, to March
31, 2026. The Company is currently in discussions with NRCan regarding a potential further extension of the project
deadline. As at December 31, 2025, the Company incurred reimbursable eligible expenditures of $1,537,799 out of
the total $4,275,848 available under contribution agreement and $2,738,049 remains available to be claimed for
future eligible expenditures.

This funding will assist the Company with qualifying specific critical magnet materials (Pr, Nd and NdPr) with
automotive, wind energy and consumer original equipment manufacturers. This funding and its focus on the light
REE magnet materials complements the Company’s US Department of Defense Government Funding Award, which
focuses on producing the heavy REE magnet materials, terbium (Tb) and dysprosium (Dy) as further described
below.

US Department of Defense Government Funding Award

On June 2, 2023, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, IMC, was awarded a firm fixed-price US$4-
million other transaction agreement (“OT Agreement” or “Award”) by the United States Army Contracting Command-
Orlando (“ACC-ORL” or “US DoD” (“Department of Defense”)) to conduct a REE separation technology capabilities
prototype project at the Company's RapidSX™ CDF, utilizing its 52-stage RapidSX™ Demo Plant for the separation
of mixed heavy REE concentrate feedstocks.

The objectives of the project are to demonstrate to the US DoD:

    1.   The capability to commercially source a sustainable domestic (that is, United States and Canada)
         processing facility for converting heavy and light REE feedstock sources to salable individual rare earth
         products.

    2.   A new innovative separation process that increases the ability to create domestic REE processing plants.

The initial OT Agreement will allow the Company to operate the RapidSX™ demonstration plant for extended
periods of nearly continuous operation, with the goal of demonstrating the following attributes to the US DoD:

    1.   Rare earth separation processing capability at a rate more efficient than conventional solvent extraction;

    2.   Separation technology applicability to both light and heavy REEs with the same equipment;

    3.   A continuous process working facility capable of processing tonnes of feedstock; and

    4.   An increase in the Company’s RapidSX™ technology readiness level (“TRL”).

Background information about the award process:

On November 10, 2022, the US DoD issued a request for solutions (“RFS”) seeking vendors and suppliers of
innovative REE projects that can promote the adoption of REE recovery and separation technologies that
incorporate advanced processing capabilities with the ability to meet the US DoD's requirements.

On January 17, 2023, the Company, through IMC, submitted a solution to the US DoD in response to the RFS,
based on the execution of its separation technology development program in Kingston, ON, and its commercial
deployment advancements in Louisiana. The Company’s solution described the proposed project and the use of its
proprietary RapidSX™ separation technology at the CDF utilizing the Demo Plant.

On June 2, 2023, the OT Agreement was finalized and awarded to the Company, through IMC, by ACC-ORL.
Pursuant to the terms of the OT Agreement, the Company is to pursue and complete the project in stages and
provide regular reporting and information to ACC-ORL. The payment milestones are divided into fixed tranches and
tied to the successful completion of each stage.

On December 13, 2024, the Company announced that the US DoD approved modifications to the Company’s
existing OT Agreement and a corresponding payment of US$1.8 million for the completion of certain milestones
under the Award. The modifications amended the existing agreement to more closely align payment milestones to
the commercial objectives of the project, including:

                                                                                                           16 | P a g e
    •    Significant business progress toward the establishment of a Western supply chain;

    •    Over 2,600 hours of demo plant operation in a simulated commercial environment processing tonnes of
         mixed rare earth elements; and

    •    Thousands of hours of conventional solvent extraction pilot operation for direct comparative analysis.

To date, the Company has completed all the project milestones (including all HREE objectives) under the initial OT
Agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company recorded a cost recovery of $1,448,189
(US$1,057,412) to research and development compared to $3,235,768 (US$2,295,472) for the year ended
December 31, 2024.

On May 14, 2025, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement with the DoD regarding amending
the OT Agreement whereby an additional fixed amount of US$18.4 million will be provided to the Company. On
June 2, 2025, the Company announced the execution of the amending OT Agreement (“Second OT Agreement”)
bringing the total US DoD funding to US$22.4 million.

The purpose of the additional US$18.4 million award from the US DoD is to facilitate the construction of the
Company's first commercial RapidSX™ machine and supporting infrastructure. Specifically, the additional
requirements of the project and the Company's objectives pursuant to the Second OT Agreement are to:

    •    Complete detailed design, engineering, construction, and confirmation testing of commercial-scale
         RapidSX™ columns at the Company's CDF;

    •    Complete initial design and engineering plans for the LSMC;

    •    Submit the required permit applications for the initial single machine demonstration trials with respect to
         the LSMC;

    •    Construct the requisite RapidSX™ supporting infrastructure for the single machine trials, which will initially
         be scaled to service three RapidSX™ machines within the LSMC (with still capacity for additional machines
         within the 80,800-square-foot facility); and

    •    Construct one commercial-scale RapidSX™ machine within the LSMC, including commissioning,
         demonstration and achieving "early production" readiness of salable individual REE products from the
         LSMC in H1-2027.

The Second OT Agreement contains 20 project milestones. To date, the Company has fully completed 5 of the 20
project milestones under the Second OT Agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company
recorded a cost recovery of $927,441 (US$676,847) to research and development related to the Second OT
Agreement. The Company continues to advance work on the remaining milestones and as at the date of this MD&A,
US$16,500,133 remains available to be claimed upon achievement of future milestones.

Government of Canada Funding for a Samarium and Gadolinium Facility

On October 31, 2025, the Company announced that it has been conditionally approved for a Government of Canada
contribution of up to $36.3 million for the “Pathway to Samarium and Gadolinium Security” project. This includes the
conditional approval of a contribution of up to $26.3 million from NRCan through the Global Partnerships Initiative
Program and up to $10 million from FedDev Ontario, to demonstrate and scale-up a first-of-its-kind commercial
processing facility in Kingston, Ontario, dedicated to the refining of the critical rare earth elements samarium and
gadolinium. If approved, this funding will address a critical gap in the North American defense and technology supply
chains. As of the date of this MD&A, the Company does not have a definitive agreement with the Government of
Canada for this funding. Definitive agreements for the up to $26.3 million from NRCan and the up to $10 million
from FedDev Ontario are expected to be negotiated and finalized in the coming months.




                                                                                                           17 | P a g e
Financing Transactions

2025 Private Placements

On June 19, 2025, the Company closed a brokered private placement for aggregate gross proceeds of $15,500,000
million, which includes the full exercise of the agents’ option. In aggregate pursuant to the brokered private
placement, the Company issued 12,916,667 units of the Company at a price of $1.20 per unit. Each unit consists of
one common share in the capital of the Company and one-half of one common share purchase warrant. Each whole
warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one common share at any time on or before June 19, 2028 at an
exercise price of $1.75.

Red Cloud Securities Inc., as lead agent and sole bookrunner, together with Raymond James Ltd., acted as agents
in connection with the brokered private placement. As consideration for their services, the agents received cash
commissions and advisory fees totaling $855,000 and were issued an aggregate of 712,500 non-transferable
common share purchase broker warrants. Each broker warrant is exercisable into one common share at $1.20 at
any time on or before June 19, 2028.

The units were issued to Canadian purchasers pursuant to the listed issuer financing exemption under Part 5A of
National Instrument 45-106 – Prospectus Exemptions, as amended by Coordinated Blanket Order 45-935 –
Exemptions from Certain Conditions of the Listed Issuer Financing Exemption. The units and the securities
underlying the units are not subject to resale restrictions pursuant to applicable Canadian securities laws.

The net proceeds of the brokered private placement are expected to be used for the following: (i) finalization of
upstream mixed-rare-earth feedstock agreements and downstream customer offtake agreements for the Company’s
planned SMC in Louisiana; (ii) completion of the Company’s existing obligations pursuant to its agreements with the
US DoD and NRCan; (iii) commercial scale column confirmation testing; (iv) progressing engineering drawings and
plans, which are currently ongoing, for the Company’s planned SMC; and (v) general working capital requirements.

On February 28, 2025, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement of 1,955,800 units at a price of $0.60
per unit for gross proceeds of $1,173,480. Each unit is comprised of one common share of the Company and one
common share purchase warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one common share
at an exercise price $0.75 per common share for a period of 36 months following the date of issuance.

On January 31, 2025, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement which consisted of 3,600,000 units at
a price of $0.60 per unit for gross proceeds of $2,160,000. Each unit is comprised of one common share of the
Company and one common share purchase warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase
one common share at an exercise price of $0.75 per common share for a period of 36 months following the date of
issuance.

2024 Private Placement

On November 14, 2024, the Company announced the closing of a non-brokered private placement of 4,803,329
units at a price of $0.50 per unit for gross proceeds of $2,401,665. Each unit consists of one common share in the
capital of the Company and one-half of one common share purchase warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder
thereof to purchase one common share for a period of 24 months following the date of closing of the private
placement at an exercise price of $0.75. In connection with the private placement, the Company issued a total of
21,000 common shares to an arms-length finder.

Pursuant to the private placement, certain insiders of the Company – being Pat Ryan (the Company’s Chairman
and CEO) and Orca Holdings, LLC (“Orca”), which is wholly owned by Randy Johnson (a director of the Company)
– purchased a total of 2,856,330 units for gross proceeds to the Company of $1,428,165. As such, the private
placement is considered a related party transaction within the meaning of Multilateral Instrument 61-101 – Protection
of Minority Security Holders in Special Transactions (“MI 61-101”). Full details of the above-described transactions
with Mr. Ryan and Orca will be disclosed on the System for Electronic Disclosure by Insiders (SEDI)
at www.sedi.ca and, in the case of Orca, in an early warning press release and an early warning report available on
the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval+ (SEDAR+) at www.sedarplus.ca. The private
placement was exempt from the formal valuation and minority shareholder approval requirements of MI 61-101 as
neither the fair market value of the subject matter of the private placement, nor the consideration to be paid,
exceeded 25% of the Company’s market capitalization. No new insiders and no control persons were created in
connection with the closing of the private placement.



                                                                                                         18 | P a g e
2024 Line of Credit Facility Amendments

On April 26, 2024, the Company announced amendments to the 2023 Line of Credit Facility and the 2022 Line of
Credit Facility with Orca. Both facilities are further described below under 2023 Line of Credit Facility and 2022 Line
of Credit Facility. The Company and Orca agreed to further amend their debt arrangements regarding the 2023
Facility and 2022 Facility and entered into amending agreements in connection with these amendments. The
Company and Orca agreed to: increase the credit limit under the 2023 Facility from US$2.2 million to US$3.2 million;
and amend the interest payment terms of both the 2022 Facility and the 2023 Facility in accordance with the
following:

         (a) whereas interest was previously payable on maturity, interest will now be payable quarterly, unless the
         Company would have less than $2.0 million in cash after such interest payment; and

         (b) in the event that the Company would have less than $2.0 million in cash after a quarterly interest
         payment:
                   • the interest will not be payable at that time;
                   • interest will compound on unpaid interest at the rate outlined in the applicable debt
                   agreements between the parties (as amended); and
                   • unpaid interest will be added to the next quarterly interest payment.

In consideration for the above-stated amendments to the 2023 Facility the Company agreed to issue 1,300,000
additional warrants to Orca, with each warrant entitling Orca to acquire one common share at an exercise price of
$0.75 per share until January 31, 2026. The warrants were to contain a condition precedent to their exercise such
that no warrants shall be exercisable if such exercise would cause Orca’s ownership of the Company’s, as calculated
on a partially diluted basis, to exceed 19.99% of the aggregate of the issued and outstanding shares in the capital
of the Company.

On June 7, 2024, the Company announced additional amendments to the 2023 Facility and the 2022 Facility with
Orca. The Company and Orca agreed to further increase the credit limit under the 2023 Facility to US$5.2 million
and further extend the maturity dates of both the 2023 Facility and the 2022 Facility to October 1, 2026. All of the
warrants that were previously issued or issuable in connection with the 2022 Facility and the 2023 Facility are
deemed to have expired or become non-issuable (as applicable) concurrently with the effective date of the new
amendments and extensions to the lines of credit. As consideration for these changes, the Company issued a total
of 7.7 million new common share purchase warrants to Orca, with 4.4 million of these warrants having an exercise
price of $0.89 per common share and the rest of these warrants having an exercise price of $0.75 per common
share. All 7,700,000 warrants expire on October 1, 2026, and contain a condition precedent to their exercise such
that no warrants shall be exercisable if such exercise would cause Orca's ownership of the Company, as calculated
on a partially diluted basis, to exceed 19.99% of the aggregate of the issued and outstanding common shares,
unless the Company obtains prior shareholder approval in accordance with the applicable requirements of the TSX
Venture Exchange. The TSX Venture Exchange approved the issuance of the 7.7 million warrants on September
30, 2024.

2024 Convertible Debentures

On February 9, 2024, the Company closed the second and final tranche of a non-brokered private placement of
convertible debentures for gross proceeds of $1,990,000 (the “2024 Convertible Debentures”). Each debenture was
issued at a price of $1,000 per debenture. The 2024 Convertible Debentures bore interest at a rate of 7.5%, payable
semi-annually on the last day of June and December of each year, commencing on June 30, 2024. The 2024
Convertible Debentures had a maturity date of January 31, 2026, and were unsecured. At any time before maturity,
a holder could have elected to convert the outstanding net principal amount, or any portion thereof, into units at a
conversion price of $0.75 per unit. Each unit consisted of one common share of the Company and one half of a
warrant, with each whole warrant entitling the holder to acquire a common share at an exercise price of $1.05 for a
period ending on the maturity date of the debentures. In connection with the issuance of the 2024 Convertible
Debentures the Company paid a total of $89,250 finders' fees and issued a total of 231,000 finders' warrants. Each
finder's warrant entitled the holder to acquire one common share of the Company at a price of $0.75 for a period of
24 months from the date of issuance. As of December 31, 2025, all of the 2024 Convertible Debentures have been
converted.

2020 Convertible Debentures

On May 21 and 29, 2020, the Company issued 1,280 and 1,520 convertible debentures respectively, with a face
value of $1,000 each for total gross proceeds of $2.8 million (the “2020 Convertible Debentures”). These unsecured
convertible debentures bore interest at a rate of 7.5% payable semi-annually.
                                                                                                           19 | P a g e
On April 26, 2024, the Company announced amendments to the 2020 Convertible Debentures that had a maturity
date of May 31, 2024. The Company extended the maturity date of the convertible debentures to January 31, 2026
and amended the terms of conversion feature. Under the amended terms at any time during the term of the 2020
Convertible Debentures, a holder could have elected to convert the outstanding net principal amount, or any portion
thereof, into units at a conversion price of $0.90 per unit, amended from $1.20 per unit. Each unit consisted of one
common share of the Company and one-half of a warrant with each whole warrant entitling the holder to acquire a
common share at an exercise price of $1.30, amended from $1.80, until the maturity date of the debenture. In
consideration for the extension and amendments, the Company paid a restructuring fee equal to six months interest.
The other terms of the 2020 Convertible Debentures remained unchanged. The TSX Venture Exchange approved
the 2020 Convertible Debenture amendments on September 24, 2024. On September 3, 2025, the then 1,100
outstanding convertible debentures were automatically converted into equity pursuant to an automatic conversion
clause.

2023 Line of Credit Facility

On May 9, 2023, the Company entered into a secured line of credit facility agreement with Orca, in the amount of
up to US$1 million (the "2023 Facility"). Proceeds from the 2023 Facility were primarily used to continue
commissioning trials at the Company's RapidSX™ Demo Plant. Drawdowns on the 2023 Facility were available in
multiples of US$100,000 and as of the date of this MD&A the Company has drawn down the full US$1,000,000 from
the 2023 Facility. The 2023 Facility carries an interest at a rate of 10% per annum. All amounts owing under the
2023 Facility were to be repayable by December 31, 2023. An administrative loan origination fee equal to 1.5% of
the available 2023 Facility was to be paid at maturity. A total of 1 million bonus warrants were issued as consideration
for the granting of the 2023 Facility. The warrants contained a condition precedent to their exercise such that no
warrant could be exercised if such exercise would cause Orca’s ownership of the Company, as calculated on a
partially diluted basis, to exceed 19.99%. The warrants had an exercise price of $1.20 and a term of 12 months from
the date of issue.

On December 22, 2023, the Company announced that the Company and Orca agreed to extend the term of the
2023 Facility such that the amended maturity date will be January 31, 2026. Further, Orca agreed to increase the
available principal amount of the 2023 Facility to US$2,200,000 which was fully drawn down at December 31, 2023.
Orca agreed to keep the annual interest rate on the 2023 Facility unchanged at 10%. A total of one million warrants
previously issued to Orca in connection with the 2023 Facility were deemed to have expired concurrently with the
execution of the 2023 Facility amending agreement. In consideration for extending the due date of the 2023 Facility
to January, 31, 2026, and increasing the amount of the facility, a total of 2.9 million warrants were issued to Orca,
with each warrant entitling Orca to acquire one common share of the Company at an exercise price of $0.89. These
warrants had a term ending on January 31, 2026. The TSX Venture Exchange approved the issuance of the 2.9
million warrants on March 4, 2024. The 2023 Facility has since been amended as further described above under
2024 Line of Credit Facility Amendments.

Orca is owned by Mr. Randy Johnson, a resident of Alaska, USA. Mr. Johnson, directly and indirectly, holds greater
than 10% of the Company’s outstanding common shares (but less than 20%) and he is a Director of the Company.
Therefore, the transaction is considered a related party transaction within the meaning of MI 61-101. The line of
credit facility transaction between the Company and Orca was exempt from the formal valuation and minority
shareholder approval requirements of MI 61-101 since neither the fair market value of the subject matter of the
transaction, nor the considered received or payable, exceeded 25% of the Company's market capitalization. No new
insiders and no control persons were created in connection with the closing of the transactions. The Company’s
Board of Directors believes that the line of credit facility has reasonable commercial terms that are not less
advantageous to the Company as compared to if the line of credit were obtained from a person dealing at arm’s
length with the Company. The above-described transactions were reviewed and unanimously approved by the
Company's Board of Directors. No special committee of the Board of Directors was created to negotiate, review and
approve the, line of credit, line of credit amending agreement, or the offering agreements; rather, the agreements
were negotiated by the Company with Mr. Johnson declaring his conflict and abstaining from the Board of Directors'
deliberations. No cash consideration was paid pursuant to the extension of the due dates for the line of credit and
no commissions or similar fees were paid to any person with respect the extension.

2022 Line of Credit Facility

The Company was party to a secured line of credit facility agreement with Orca in the amount US$2,000,000 (the
“2022 Facility”) which had a maturity date of March 31, 2024. On December 22, 2023, the Company announced
that it had entered into an agreement with Orca to extend the term of 2022 Facility such that the amended maturity
date will be January 31, 2026. Orca also agreed to keep the annual interest rate on the 2022 Facility unchanged at
9%. A total of 1.15 million warrants that were previously issued to Orca in connection with the 2022 Facility expired
concurrently with the execution of the 2022 Facility amending agreement. In consideration for extending the due

                                                                                                            20 | P a g e
date of the 2022 Facility to January 31, 2026, a total of 1.5 million warrants were issued to Orca, with each warrant
entitling Orca to acquire one common share of the Company at an exercise price of $0.89. These warrants had a
term ending on January 31, 2026. The TSX Venture Exchange approved the issuance of the 1.5 million warrants
on March 4, 2024. The line of credit is secured by a general security agreement over the assets of the Company.
Certain terms of the 2022 Facility have since been amended as further described above in 2024 Line of Credit
Facility Amendments. On November 12, 2025, the Company repaid the outstanding balance of the 2022 Facility in
full, thereby extinguishing all obligations under the agreement.

Orca is owned by Mr. Randy Johnson, a resident of Alaska, USA. Mr. Johnson, directly and indirectly, holds greater
than 10% of the Company’s outstanding common shares (but less than 20%) and he is a Director of the Company.
Therefore, the transaction is considered a related party transaction within the meaning of MI 61-101. The line of
credit facility transaction between the Company and Orca was exempt from the formal valuation and minority
shareholder approval requirements of MI 61-101 since neither the fair market value of the subject matter of the
transaction, nor the considered received or payable, exceeded 25% of the Company's market capitalization. No new
insiders and no control persons were created in connection with the closing of the transactions. The Company’s
Board of Directors believes that the line of credit facility has reasonable commercial terms that are not less
advantageous to the Company as compared to if the line of credit were obtained from a person dealing at arm’s
length with the Company. The above-described transactions were reviewed and unanimously approved by the
Company's Board of Directors. No special committee of the Board of Directors was created to negotiate, review and
approve the, line of credit, line of credit amending agreement, or the offering agreements; rather, the agreements
were negotiated by the Company with Mr. Johnson declaring his conflict and abstaining from the Board of Directors'
deliberations. No cash consideration was paid pursuant to the extension of the due date for the line of credit and no
commissions or similar fees were paid to any person with respect the extension.

Term Loan

The Company is party to a secured term loan payable to Orca in the amount of US$964,928 which had a maturity
date of November 30, 2024 (the “Term Loan”). On December 22, 2023, the parties executed an agreement to further
extend the maturity date of Term Loan to January 31, 2027. The parties also agreed to keep the annual interest rate
on the Term Loan at 9%. A total of one million warrants each with an exercise price of $0.85 that were previously
issued to Orca in connection with the Term Loan expired concurrently with the execution of the Term Loan amending
agreement. In consideration for extending the maturity date for the Term Loan to January 31, 2027, and for not
increasing the interest rate, a total of 1.2 million warrants were issued to Orca, with each warrant entitling Orca to
acquire one common share at an exercise price of $0.89. The warrants have a term ending on January 31, 2027.
The TSX Venture Exchange approved the issuance of the 1.2 million warrants on March 4, 2024.

Orca is owned by Mr. Randy Johnson, a resident of Alaska, USA. Mr. Johnson, directly and indirectly, holds greater
than 10% of the Company’s outstanding common shares (but less than 20%) and he is a Director of the Company.
Therefore, the transaction is considered a related party transaction within the meaning of MI 61-101. The Term Loan
transaction between the Company and Orca was exempt from the formal valuation and minority shareholder
approval requirements of MI 61-101 since neither the fair market value of the subject matter of the transaction, nor
the considered received or payable, exceeded 25% of the Company's market capitalization. No new insiders and
no control persons were created in connection with the closing of the transaction.

The Company’s Board of Directors believes that Term Loan has reasonable commercial terms that are not less
advantageous to the Company as compared to if the Term Loan were obtained from a person dealing at arm’s
length with the Company. The above-described transactions were reviewed and unanimously approved by the
Company's Board of Directors. No special committee of the Board of Directors was created to negotiate, review and
approve the Term Loan amending agreement or the offering agreements; rather, the agreements were negotiated
by the Company with Mr. Johnson declaring his conflict and abstaining from the Board of Directors' deliberations.
No cash consideration was paid pursuant to the extension of the due dates for the Term Loan, and no commissions
or similar fees were paid to any person with respect to the extension.




                                                                                                          21 | P a g e
Selected Annual Information

The following annual information is prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards. Amounts are reported
in thousands of Canadian dollars, except for per share amounts.

                                                 For the year ended      For the year ended        For the year ended
                                                      December 31,            December 31,              December 31,
                                                               2025                    2024                      2023
                                                                   $                       $                         $
  Net loss                                                    39,265                  13,470                     7,605
  Loss per share – basic and diluted                              0.46                    0.22                       0.13
  Total assets                                                 83,583                   62,055                    60,621


Research and Development Expenditures

During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company incurred $7,543,540 (December 31, 2024 - $5,453,839)
in net research and development expenditures. The following is a breakdown of the material components of the
Company’s research and development expenditures:

                                                                         For the year ended         For the year ended
                                                                         December 31, 2025          December 31, 2024
                                                                                           $                          $
 Depreciation                                                                      1,796,163                  1,801,083
 Consulting and professional services                                                979,634                  1,189,077
 Facility and equipment expenditures                                                 139,500                    120,300
 Laboratory and analytical expenses                                                   85,251                     92,500
 Labour                                                                            5,470,748                  4,734,923
 Other operating expenses                                                            164,034                    163,797
 Process feedstock and reagents                                                      265,839                    249,135
 Share-based payments                                                                 69,711                     21,174
 Supplies, consumables, and materials                                              1,596,828                    771,316
 Waste management disposal                                                           221,796                    349,454
 Total research and development expenditures                                     10,789,504                   9,492,759
 NRC-CMRDD program funding                                                         (249,521)                  (363,152)
 Government tax credits and recoveries                                             (320,813)                  (240,000)
 CMIF funding                                                                      (300,000)                  (200,000)
 US DoD funding                                                                  (2,375,630)                (3,235,768)
 Total research and development expenditures, net                                  7,543,540                  5,453,839

Results of Operations

The Company has no operating revenues. The Company is dependent on equity or other external financings to fund
the Company’s mineral exploration and evaluation operations, to fund the Company’s evaluation and intended
development of the Company’s prospective Louisiana SMC, to fund the Company’s pursuit and development of the
Company’s consolidated business plans (including the expected continued development of IMC’s RapidSX™), and
also to fund all of the Company’s general, administrative, interest and other costs. As a result, the Company expects
to incur operating losses until such time as either: (i) an economic mineral resource is identified, developed and put
into profitable commercial production on one or more of the Company’s mineral properties; (ii) the Louisiana SMC
becomes designed, constructed and then eventually operational to the extent that it generates net profits; (iii) the
Company engages in other joint ventures related to its RapidSX™ technology; and/or (iv) the Company profitably
sells one or more of its core assets.

During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company incurred a net loss of approximately $39.26 million
compared to a net loss of $13.47 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, an increase of approximately
$25.79 million. Operating expenses totalling approximately $15.09 million were recognized during the year ended
December 31, 2025 compared to approximately $10.37 million during the year ended December 31, 2024. The
increase in net loss is primarily attributable to the fair value adjustment of derivative liabilities, which increased due
to the higher share price during the year, as the fair value of the conversion feature fluctuates with changes in the
Company’s share price. Further variances between the years are discussed below.



                                                                                                              22 | P a g e
The Company recorded a non-cash amortization expense of approximately $943,000 during the year ended
December 31, 2025, which is consistent with the prior year amount of $942,000 and is largely attributable to the
amortization of the Company’s intellectual property.

For the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company recorded salaries and management fees of approximately
$1.64 million compared to approximately $1.16 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to
one-time bonuses paid during the year and higher salary and management fees resulting from annual compensation
adjustments.

Professional services expenditures totaled approximately $1.79 million for the year ended December 31, 2025,
compared to approximately $1.32 million in the prior year. The increase reflects higher legal, tax, and audit costs
and increased use of external professional advisors in connection with advancing the Company’s strategic initiatives.

During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company incurred net research and development expenditures of
approximately $7.54 million compared to approximately $5.45 million for the year ended December 31, 2024.
Research and development expenditures relate to expenditures incurred to further the advancement of the
Company’s wholly owned subsidiary’s RapidSX™ technology. The increase of approximately $2.09 million in the
current year was primarily driven by the timing of milestone achievements under the Company’s agreement with the
US DoD and the corresponding funding received. A breakdown of material components of the Company’s research
and development expenditures year over year is presented above in the Research and Development Expenditures
section.

Investor relations and marketing expenditures were approximately $866,000 for the year ended December 31, 2025
compared to approximately $327,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024. Further details pertaining to the
Company’s investor relations and marketing activities is found below in the Investor Relations, Marketing and Other
section.

The Company recorded office and premises expenditures of approximately $335,000 for the year ended December
31, 2025, compared to approximately $274,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024. The increase was primarily
attributable to higher general office expenses associated with increased corporate and project development
activities during the year.

The Company recorded non-cash share-based compensation expense of approximately $1.41 million, reflecting the
estimated value of stock options and restricted share units recognized over their respective vesting periods during
the year ended December 31, 2025 compared to approximately $569,000 in the prior year. Differences year-over-
year are largely attributable to size and timing of the options and restricted share units granted in each year.

The Company recorded travel expenditures of approximately $423,000 for the year ended December 31, 2025,
compared to $206,000 in the prior year. The increase in the current year is primarily attributable to increased travel
to the Company’s CDF in Kingston, ON, and the Company’s LSMC, in Alexandria, Louisiana, as well as attendance
at various industry conferences.

When looking at the Company’s consolidated statement of loss and comprehensive loss, the difference between
the operating expenses and the net loss is the result of the following items:

    •    During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company recorded interest and accretion expense of
         approximately $2.81 million compared to approximately $2.48 million for the year ended December 31,
         2024. The interest and accretion expenditures are as a result of the Company’s convertible debentures,
         loans payable and lease liabilities.

    •    The 2020 and 2024 Convertible Debentures contain multiple embedded derivatives which have been
         revalued upon conversion, resulting in a non-cash loss on the fair value adjustment of approximately
         $21.74 million for the year ended December 31, 2025, as compared to a non-cash gain of approximately
         $549,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024. The increase in the fair value adjustment is primarily
         attributable to the higher share price during the year, as the fair value of the conversion feature fluctuates
         with changes in the Company’s share price.

    •    During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company recognized other income of approximately
         $25,000, compared to approximately $601,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease in
         the current period is due to the termination of the sublease for the Company’s SMC facility in Alexandria,
         Louisiana, in early January of 2025.


                                                                                                           23 | P a g e
    •    The Company recorded a foreign exchange gain of approximately $320,000 during the year ended
         December 31, 2025, compared to a loss of approximately $639,000 for the year ended December 31,
         2024. As the Company continues to deal in both the Canadian and United States currencies, the Company
         may continue to incur foreign exchange gains and losses arising from changes in the value of the Unites
         States dollar relative to the Canadian dollar.

Summary of Quarterly Financial Results

 Expressed in           12/31/25    09/30/25    06/30/25    03/31/25     12/31/24    09/30/24    06/30/24      03/31/24
 thousands of              $           $           $           $            $           $           $             $
 dollars, except per
 share amounts

 Net loss                  7,817      22,690        3,634       5,124       2,024     2,724(1)     5,497(1)      3,410(1)

 Net loss per share         0.07         0.25        0.05        0.08        0.03         0.04        0.09        0.06(1)
 – basic and diluted

 Total Assets             83,583      76,023      70,665       60,724      62,055      58,088      59,246        60,422


(1) The company has restated the net loss to reflect year-end December 31, 2024, adjusting journal entries that were

reflected in the last annual consolidated financial statements as further described in note 3 of the unaudited
condensed interim consolidated financial statements for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September
30, 2025.

During the fourth quarter of 2025, the Company incurred a net loss of approximately $7.82 million compared to a
net loss of approximately $2.02 million in the fourth quarter of 2024. As a result of fair value adjustments to the
Company’s convertible debentures during the current quarter, the Company recorded a non-cash loss on the fair
value adjustment of derivative liabilities of approximately $2.39 million, as compared to a non-cash loss of
approximately $395,000 during the comparable prior quarter. During the fourth quarter of 2025, the Company
recorded research and development expenditures of approximately $2.75 million, compared to a recovery of
research and development expenditures of approximately $1.2 million in the comparable prior quarter, primarily due
to the timing of completed project milestones and the associated funding received from the US DoD. As a result of
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the Company recorded a gain due to foreign exchange of approximately
$67,000 in the current quarter, compared to a loss of approximately $641,000 in the comparable prior quarter. The
remaining operating and other expenditures remained relatively consistent quarter-over-quarter.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As at December 31, 2025, the Company had positive working capital of approximately $19.5 million with an
unrestricted cash balance of approximately $26.12 million. As at December 31, 2025, the Company had current
assets of approximately $28.45 million and current liabilities of approximately $8.94 million resulting in current ratio
of 3.18.

During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company used approximately $10.98 million in cash to fund
operating activities, primarily related to research and development at the Company’s RapidSX TM Pilot Plant.

On January 31, 2025, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement which consisted of 3,600,000 units at
a price of $0.60 per unit for gross proceeds of $2,160,000. See “Financing Transactions – 2025 Private Placements”
above for additional information.

On February 28, 2025, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement of 1,955,800 units at a price of $0.60
per unit for gross proceeds of $1,173,480. See “Financing Transactions – 2025 Private Placements” above for
additional information.

On June 19, 2025, the Company closed a brokered private placement of 12,916,667 units at a price of $1.20 per
unit for gross proceeds of $15,500,000. See “Financing Transactions – 2025 Private Placements” above for
additional information.



                                                                                                              24 | P a g e
On November 12, 2025, the Company repaid in full the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest of
$1,629,499 (US$1,162,193) under the 2022 Facility, thereby extinguishing all remaining obligations pursuant to the
agreement. See “Financing Transactions - 2022 Line of Credit Facility” above for additional information.

During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Company received proceeds of $25,505,898 from the exercise of
stock-options, warrants, and compensation options.

Subsequent to December 31, 2025, the Company received proceeds of $4,095,795 from the exercise of stock-
options and warrants.

Based on the Company’s closing share price of $6.07 on March 17, 2025, there are in-the-money outstanding stock-
options and warrants, that if exercised, would provide the Company with proceeds of $15,404,939.

The Company is reliant on equity or other forms of financing to fund the advancement of its RapidSX™ Program,
the development of its SMC in Louisiana, the advancement of the Bokan Project, and other corporate objectives.
Management concluded that the Company has sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations for the next twelve months,
considering the Company’s planned capital expenditures and exploration activities. The Company has the ability to
scale back its capital expenditures and exploration activities, and will do so as necessary, based on cash availability.
The Company will also need to raise further financing within the next two years to execute its strategic plan and
meet its objectives. Management is actively evaluating potential sources of additional financing, which may be
completed by way of traditional equity financings or in a number of alternative ways including, but not limited to, a
combination of: new strategic partnerships; joint venture arrangements; project-level or subsidiary-level third-party
financings; royalty or streaming financing; the sale of core and/or non-core assets; and other capital market
alternatives.

Market Maker

In regard to market making services related to the Company’s common shares, the Company currently retains the
services of Venture Liquidity Providers Inc. ("VLP") to provide assistance in maintaining an orderly trading market
for the common shares of the Company on the TSX Venture Exchange. These market making services are
undertaken by VLP through a registered investment dealer, W.D. Latimer Co. Ltd., in compliance with the policies
of the TSX Venture Exchange and other applicable legislation. The Company continues to pay VLP $5,000 per
month as was described in the Company’s press release dated January 15, 2016 when VLP was first retained by
the Company.

Investor Relations, Marketing, and Other

During the year ended December 31, 2025, and up until the date of this MD&A, the Company used advertising and
promotion services offered by Google and Facebook to raise public awareness of the Company’s website and
corporate videos and to bring awareness to the Company’s business initiatives. The Company’s corporate videos
are approved by the Company’s management prior to public distribution. On October 28, 2024, the Company
engaged Outside the Box Capital Inc. (“OTB”) at a cost of $150,000 for a period of six months. On May 13, 2025,
the Company re-engaged OTB for a period of 12 months. In consideration of the services to be provided by OTB,
the Company paid a cash fee in the amount of $160,000 and issued 100,000 stock options to purchase the common
shares of the Company with an exercise price of $1.60 per common share. The Company also paid $25,000 to be
used by OTB for its influencer marketing campaign. Services performed by OTB are comprised of marketing and
distribution services to communicate information about the Company and create awareness and investor
engagement. On February 19, 2025 the Company engaged InvestorNews Inc. (“InvestorNews”), for 12 months, at
a cost of $18,750. InvestorNews Inc. provided digital marketing and video production services along with a 12-month
brand awareness program featured on InvestorNews’ website and social media channels. On May 5, 2025, the
Company engaged Goldinvest Consulting GmbH ("Goldinvest”) for a period of six months at a cost of 4,050 euros
per month. Goldinvest prepared corporate videos and assisted with investor awareness activities in Germany. On
May 8, 2025, the Company engaged InvestorBrandNetwork (“IBN”), to assist with various marketing initiatives and
the Company expects that IBN will leverage its investor-based distribution network of 5,000-plus key syndication
outlets, various newsletters and other outreach tools to generate awareness of the Company. The Company has
engaged IBN for a period of 12 months, commencing May 8, 2025, at a cost of US$23,200 per quarter.




                                                                                                            25 | P a g e
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As at December 31, 2025, the Company had no off-balance sheet arrangements such as guarantee contracts,
contingent interest in assets transferred to an entity, derivative instruments obligations or any obligations that trigger
financing, liquidity, market or credit risk to the Company.

Critical Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Accounting Standards requires management to
make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the year. These estimates are based on historical experience, current and future
economic conditions, and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances. The determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment based on various
assumptions and other factors such as historical experience and current and expected economic conditions. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. Further information on management’s judgments, estimates and
assumptions and how they impact accounting policies are described below and also in the relevant notes to the
consolidated financial statements.

Going concern
The assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and to raise sufficient funds to pay for its
ongoing operating expenditures, meets its liabilities for the ensuing year, and to fund planned and contractual
development and exploration programs, involves significant judgment based on historical experience and other
factors including expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Recoverability of resource properties and related exploration costs

At the end of the reporting period, the Company assessed its resource properties and related exploration costs to
determine whether any indication of impairment exists. Judgement is required in determining whether indicators of
impairment exist, including factors such as expiration of rights to explore with no right or expectation of renewal,
substantive expenditure on further exploration and evaluation in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned
or the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area, no commercially viable quantities are
discovered and exploration and evaluation activities will be discontinued, or sufficient data exists to indicate that the
carrying amount of the resource properties and related exploration costs are unlikely to be recovered in full from
successful development or by sale.

Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered
to be the greater of the fair value less cost of disposal and value in use. The impairment analysis requires the use
of estimates and assumptions, such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital expenditures,
exploration potential and operating costs. The fair value of resource properties and related exploration costs is
generally determined as the present value of estimated future cash flows arising from the continued use of the
assets, which includes estimates such as the cost of future expansion plans and eventual disposal, using
assumptions that an independent market participation may take into account. Cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and
risk to the asset. If the Company does not have sufficient information about a particular mineral resource property
to meaningfully estimate future cash flows, the fair value is estimated by management through comparison to similar
market assets and, where available, industry benchmarks.

Convertible debentures

In 2020 and 2024, the Company issued convertible debentures with an embedded derivative, a conversion option,
allowing the holder to convert any or all amounts outstanding to units, consisting of common shares and share
purchase warrants of the Company. The terms of the debentures also allowed the Company to extend the maturity
date by one year. The identification of the convertible debenture components was based on interpretations of the
substance of the contractual arrangement and therefore required judgement from management. The separation of
components affects the initial recognition of the convertible debenture at issuance and the subsequent recognition
of interest on the liability component. The determination of fair value of the liability was also based on several
assumptions, including contractual future cash flows, discount rates and the presence of any derivative financial
instruments. The inputs used in the fair value models contain inherent uncertainties, estimates and use of judgment
as certain valuation inputs are unobservable.




                                                                                                              26 | P a g e
Changes in Accounting Standards including Initial Adoption

Other accounting standards issued but not yet effective

The Company is in the process of determining how the following new and amended standards could impact its
financial statements.

The IASB has issued classification and measurement and disclosure amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures with an effective date for years beginning on or after January 1, 2026
with earlier application permitted. The amendments relevant to the Company clarify the date of recognition and
derecognition of some financial assets and liabilities and introduce a new exception for some financial liabilities
settled through an electronic payment system.

IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements is a new standard that will provide new presentation
and disclosure requirements and replace IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements. IFRS 18 introduces changes
to the structure of the income statement; provides required disclosures in financial statements for certain profit or
loss performance measures that are reported outside an entity’s financial statements; and provides enhanced
principles on Annual Report Consolidated Financial Statements aggregation and disaggregation in financial
statements. Many other existing principles in IAS 1 have been maintained. IFRS 18 is effective for years beginning
on or after January 1, 2027, with earlier application permitted.

Related Party Transactions

Related parties consist of key management personnel, directors, and entities that are associated with the Company
as well as significant shareholders including Orca. The Company has defined key management personnel as senior
executive officers, as well as the Board of Directors. The total remuneration of key management personnel and the
Board of Directors was as follows:

                                                                  For the year ended            For the year ended
                                                                  December 31, 2025             December 31, 2024
                                                                                  ($)                           ($)
 Director’s fees                                                             236,500                       226,000
 Share-based payments to directors                                           167,121                       113,443
 Key management short-term benefits                                          840,444                       526,605
 Share-based payments to key management                                      501,059                       200,612
                                                                           1,745,124                     1,066,660

Key management short-term benefits include all salary, bonuses, and health/dental benefits earned by officers
during the year.

Other related party transactions

The Company paid legal fees to Miller Thomson LLP of $610,060 during the year ended December 31, 2025,
compared to $372,502 for the year ended December 31, 2024. Mr. Geoff Clarke, a director of the Company, is a
partner of that law firm. Payments made by the Company to Miller Thomson LLP are for the various legal services
provided to the Company by several lawyers and law clerks at the firm, which includes lawyers and law clerks in
multiple provinces and offices across Canada. For additional related party transactions see “Financing Transactions”
above.

The Company has loans payable to Orca, and during the year ended December 31, 2025, and the year ended
December 31, 2024, the Company amended certain loan agreements, received advances, repaid principal amounts,
repaid interest, and incurred financing fees and interest charges as further described in the “Financing Transactions”
section above.

All related party transactions were valued and recorded by the Company at the stated amount agreed to between
the parties. To the Company’s knowledge, the Company’s reporting insiders have reported their transactions on the
System for Electronic Disclosure by Insiders, known as SEDI (www.SEDI.ca). Orca Holdings, LLC (which is wholly
owned by Mr. Randy Johnson, a director of the Company since October 6, 2020) filed its latest early warning report
on SEDAR+ on December 5, 2025 (www.sedarplus.ca).




                                                                                                          27 | P a g e
Outstanding Share Data

The Company’s outstanding share capital is detailed in note 13 of the Company’s consolidated financial statements
for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024. The following is the Company’s issued and outstanding share
data as of (March 18, 2026).

                                                                                     Weighted         Weighted
                                                                                     average          average
                                                                                     exercise       remaining life
                                                                                      price            (years)
                         Securities                               Number                $
  Common shares                                                     116,354,586              n/a                n/a
  Warrants(1)                                                         11,781,789           0.89                0.66
  Compensation options                                                      2,625          1.00                0.36
  Stock options(2)                                                     4,693,334           1.06                2.78
  Deferred share units                                                    25,710             n/a                n/a
  Restricted share units                                                 640,000             n/a                n/a

(1) Subsequent to December 31, 2025, the Company received proceeds of $3,780,445 from the exercise of 4,730,000

warrants.
(2) Subsequent to December 31, 2025, the Company received proceeds of $315,350 from the exercise of 279,500

stock options.

Risks and Uncertainties

In conducting its business, the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company relate to:

    •    the development of the Company’s prospective LSMC including the commercial deployment of the
         Company’s innovative RapidSX™ mineral processing and purification technology capable of efficiently
         processing and purifying one or more feedstocks of mixed rare earth chemical concentrates;
    •    the ability of the Company to generate positive cashflow from its expected future business operations;
    •    commodity prices and the demand for REEs and other critical materials that underlay the business
         objectives of the Company;
    •    the availability of upstream REE feedstock, and in quantities and at prices that will allow for the Company
         to develop and then commercially operate its planned SMCs in order to refine the REEs and then sell and
         deliver them profitably to the Company’s downstream customers;
    •    exploration and development success of the Company’s mineral property (the Bokan Project);
    •    capital adequacy, liquidity and cash management along with the ability to obtain additional financing in
         both the short and long terms;
    •    counter-party risk and issues related to any significant non-compliance by the parties to the Company’s
         material contracts;
    •    the Company’s dependence on key management and technical personnel, including the risk that the loss
         of such individuals could adversely impact the Company’s ability to execute its strategy, develop its
         technologies, and advance is projects;
    •    the ability of the Company to develop and/or protect its intellectual property; and
    •    general economic, business and capital market sentiment and conditions.

Near-Term Execution Risks

Within the next two years, the Company’s development and growth depends on its ability to: (i) successfully trial the
Demo Plant at the CDF in Kingston, Ontario; (ii) secure one or more reliable sources of REE feedstock at prices
that are acceptable and attractive to the Company; (iii) secure one or more REE-product customers that are willing
and able to purchase REE products from the Company at prices that are expected to be profitable for the Company;
and then (iv) develop, construct and commission the Louisiana SMC (Stage 1), which is planned to be the
Company’s first commercially operated rare earth processing facility.




                                                                                                         28 | P a g e
Market Demand and End-Use Risks

The success of the Company’s business in the long run will depend, in part, on the growth of existing and emerging
uses for rare earth products and other critical materials that are suitable for processing using RapidSX™. Demand
for the REE products that the Company is planning on eventually producing and selling from the Company’s planned
SMCs may be impacted by demand for downstream products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric
vehicles, wind turbines, robotics, medical equipment, military equipment and other high-growth, advanced motion
technologies, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronic industries. Lack of growth in these markets
may adversely affect the demand for the Company’s expected products. In contrast, extended periods of high
commodity prices may create economic dislocations that may be destabilizing to rare earth oxides supply and
demand and ultimately to the broader markets. Periods of high rare earth oxide market prices generally are expected
to be beneficial to the Company’s financial performance. However, strong rare earth oxide prices also create
economic pressure to identify or create alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand
for rare earth oxides and products, and at the same time may incentivize development of competing rare earth
processing technologies and also rare earth mining properties.

The Company’s strategy is to eventually produce rare earth products from the Company’s planned SMCs that are
expected to be used by the Company’s customers in their manufacturing or assembly of hybrid and electric vehicles,
wind turbines, robotics, medical equipment, military equipment and other technologically advanced products. The
success of the Company’s eventual business will depend on the continued growth of these end markets and the
successful commercialization of rare earth products, including NdPr, in such markets. If the market for these critical
existing and emerging technologies does not grow as the Company expects, grows more slowly than is expected,
or if the expected demand for the Company’s future products in these markets decreases, then the Company’s
business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be harmed. In addition, the market for these
technologies, particularly in the automotive industry, tends to be cyclical, which exposes the Company to increased
volatility, and it is uncertain as to how such macroeconomic factors will impact the Company’s business. Any
unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of separated REE products or rare earth magnets, or less than
expected demand for the critical existing and emerging technologies that use rare earth products, could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

Geopolitical Risks

Changes in the People’s Republic of China’s political environment and policies, including changes in export policy
or the interpretation of China’s export policy and policy on rare earths production or the import of rare earth
feedstock, may adversely affect the Company’s business prospects, viability, financial condition and the results of
operations.

Capital and Project Development Risks

The production of rare earth products is a capital-intensive business and will require the commitment of substantial
resources and if the Company does not have sufficient resources to provide for such production, it could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The development, construction
and commissioning of the Louisiana SMC will require the commitment of substantial resources and capital
expenditures. The Company’s estimated expenses may increase as additional consultants, personnel and
equipment associated with the Company’s efforts are added, and as a result of inflationary pressures in Canada
and the United States. The progress of the Louisiana SMC, the amounts and timing of expenditures and the success
of the project will depend in part on the following: (a) the successful development and installation of the RapidSX™
equipment in the Louisiana SMC facility; (b) the ability of the new equipment and to separate REO as designed and
engineered; (c) the Company’s ability to timely procure new equipment and materials, certain of which may involve
long lead-times, or to repair existing equipment at the Demo Plant; (d) the failure of service providers or vendors to
meet contractually-negotiated delivery or completion deadlines or meet performance specifications or guarantees;
(e) maintaining, and procuring, as required, any applicable federal, state and local permits; (f) the handling of project
change orders, due to engineering, process, health and safety, or other considerations; (g) negotiating contracts for
equipment, equipment assembly and installation, labor and work related to commissioning the Louisiana SMC; (h)
impact of planned and unplanned shut-downs and delays in the Company’s development plans; (i) impact of
stoppages or delays on construction projects; (j) disputes with contractors or other third parties; (k) negotiating sales
and offtake contracts for the Company’s planned production; (l) the execution of any joint venture agreements or
similar arrangements with strategic partners; (m) the impact of COVID-19 or similar pandemics on the Company’s
business, the Company’s strategic partners’ or suppliers’ businesses, logistics or the global economy; and (n) other
factors, many of which are beyond our control.




                                                                                                             29 | P a g e
Technology-Specific Risks

IMC’s RapidSX™ mineral processing and purification technology is being demonstrated at the Company’s
commercialization and demonstration facility, located in Kingston, Ontario. However, it has yet to be proven at a
commercial scale in a large REE purification and processing facility. Ucore has not yet prepared or released an
economic assessment or feasibility study that utilizes RapidSX™ for the separation and production of REEs from
the Bokan Project property or any other potential REE feedstock. The following risks are specific to IMC and
RapidSX™:

    •    The commercial effectiveness of RapidSX™ is subject to uncertainty and risk, and may be affected by
         many factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, including the emergence of newer, more
         competitive technologies and processes, the cost of building and operating a commercial-scale RapidSX™
         facility, regulatory and environmental requirements, unknown profitability performance and financial
         metrics, the existence, knowledge and cooperation of key individuals, and the ability to attract customers
         and sources of feedstock.

    •    The long-term success of the Company’s acquisition of IMC will depend upon, among other things, the
         ability to protect the key intellectual property including any relevant patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and
         copyright materials and property. There is no assurance that these will remain protected. There is also no
         assurance that alternate or competing technologies will not get developed that will result in the Company’s
         existing intellectual property becoming obsolete or less competitive.

    •    The Company may not be able to adequately protect the Company’s and IMC’s intellectual property rights.
         If the Company fails to adequately enforce or defend these intellectual property rights, then the Company’s
         business may be harmed. If the Company infringes, or are accused of infringing, the intellectual property
         rights of third parties, it may increase the Company’s costs or prevent the Company from being able to
         commercialize RapidSX™ or any other new products or processes.

    •    The specialized scientific nature of RapidSX™ means that the Company’s success depends in a large part
         on the ability to recruit and retain key management, engineering, scientific, and operating personnel.
         Recruiting in these fields can be highly competitive and there is no assurance that key employees will be
         able to be recruited and retained. The loss of one more key individuals, particularly those with specialized
         knowledge of RapidSX™ of the Company’s strategic relationships, could have a material adverse effect
         on the Company’s ability to advance its technology, execute its business plan, or maintain its competitive
         position.

The Louisiana SMC discussed in this MD&A is preliminary, conceptual and aspirational in nature as at the date
hereof. The continued development of the SMC will require funding and the support of business partners, customers
and the State government in order to be designed, developed, constructed and become operational, none of which
is assured.

The Company does not currently have any contractually committed customers for the planned output and delivery
of REEs from the Company’s prospective Louisiana SMC. Although the Company is in periodic discussions with
potential customers regarding potential prepayment offtake agreements (whereby the customer would prepay for a
portion of the expected output from the Louisiana SMC and would pay for remaining ordered portions upon delivery),
there is no assurance that the parties will be able to reach an agreement or that the Company will be able to produce
and deliver the required REE products in accordance with the customer’s required specifications and timing
requirements. The Company’s Demo Plant and then the Louisiana SMC will need to process REE to exacting
specifications in order to provide future customers with a consistently high-quality product. An inability to process
REO that meet individual customer specifications may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition or results of operations.

The Company may not be able to convert the current commercial discussions with OEM-automotive and similar
REE-product customers into contracts, which will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position
and results of operations.

Resource and Technical Risks

The Company’s PEA (which was filed on SEDAR+ on March 14, 2013) is preliminary in nature. The PEA includes
indicated and inferred mineral resources only, which are considered too speculative geologically to have the
economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves. There is
no certainty that the PEA will be realized. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated
economic viability.

                                                                                                            30 | P a g e
Most mineral exploration projects do not result in the discovery or development of commercially or profitably
mineable ore deposits. No assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of ore reserves or resources
will be realized or produced from the Company’s Bokan Project. Estimates of reserves and resources, mineral
deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as: property title and tenement defects;
environmental permitting; mining regulations and regulatory requirements; first nations rights or entitlements; wildlife
concerns; weather and environmental factors; unforeseen technical difficulties; unusual or unexpected geological
formations; work interruptions, strikes and/or protests. Material changes in ore reserves and resources, grades,
stripping ratios, recovery rates or expected vs. realized selling prices of the underlying commodities may also
significantly affect the economic viability of any project. Certain of the Company’s mineral properties may be subject
to defects in title not yet known to the Company resulting the risk of loss of ownership. The Company may incur
significant costs related to defending the title to the Company’s properties.

Exploration and Acquisition Risks

The Company’s future viability may depend, in part, on its ability to identify and acquire new or additional mineral
rights and/or business opportunities, and on the ability to finance and develop those opportunities. Mineral
exploration and development is highly speculative in nature, expensive and is frequently non-productive or
profitable. Substantial expenditures are required to:

    •    locate and establish ore reserves and resources through drilling and metallurgical and other testing
         techniques;
    •    determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; and
    •    permit, construct, renovate and/or expand mining and processing facilities.

In addition, the prices of metals fluctuate widely and are affected by many factors outside of the Company’s control.
The relative prices of metals and future expectations for such prices have a significant impact on the market
sentiment for investment in mining and mineral exploration companies.

The mining and mineral processing businesses are subject to extensive and costly environmental requirements;
current and future laws, regulations and permits impose significant costs, liabilities or obligations or could limit or
prevent the Company’s ability to develop or operate the Louisiana SMC or the development and operations of the
Bokan Project. Moreover, environmental legislation and regulation are evolving in a manner that may impose stricter
standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, cessation of operations, more
stringent environmental assessments, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers,
directors and employees.

Financing and Dilution Risks

The Company does not generate any revenue and does not have sufficient funds to put any of its resource’s interests
(including the Louisiana SMC) into production from its own financial resources. There is no assurance that a future
significant financing will be available to the Company, or that it will be available on acceptable terms. If an equity or
convertible securities financing is undertaken and completed by the Company, the Company’s current stockholders
will suffer immediate dilution to their equity and voting interests as a result of such a financing.

The Company has no history of paying dividends on its common shares, and the Company does not anticipate
paying any dividends in the foreseeable future.

Government Funding Risks

There is no assurance that the Company will continue to qualify and receive any additional direct funding from any
US Government (federal, state or municipal) or any Canadian Government (federal, provincial or municipal). There
is no assurance that the State of Louisiana will provide any funding related to the Louisiana SMC, as contemplated
in the Letter of Intent dated October 14, 2022.

Information Technology and Cybersecurity Risks

The Company depends upon information technology systems in the conduct of its business. The Company’s
information technology systems are at risk to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including,
without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and defects in design.
Cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts
to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems,
unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or the corruption of data. Various measures
have been implemented to manage the Company’s risks related to information technology systems and network
disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology
                                                                                                             31 | P a g e
disruptions, the Company could potentially be subject to downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of
confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other
manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.

Insurance and General Business Risks

The Company’s business activities are inherently risky and the Company is exposed to business and financial risks
as well as liability. Many of these risks are non-insurable. For the insurable risks, if the Company is unable to
maintain adequate insurance, or liabilities exceed the limits of the Company’s insurance policies, the Company may
be unable to continue operations. Because of the unique difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new mineral
exploration ventures as well as new scientific and technological business ventures, the Company’s activities face a
high risk of business failure. Due to the Company’s limited capital, this risk poses a significant threat as compared
to larger companies in our business sector.

Financial Instrument Risks

The Company’s financial instruments consist of cash, restricted cash, short-term deposits, trade and other
receivables, lease liabilities, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and loans payable. Management does not
believe these financial instruments expose the Company to any significant interest, currency or credit risks arising
from these financial instruments. The fair market values of these financial instruments approximate their carrying
values, unless otherwise noted.

Climate Change

Recent increased attention regarding the risks of climate change may result in an increase in the stigmatization of
the Company’s industry (mineral resource development and mineral extraction/separation technologies). This may
result in reduced interest or investment participation by capital market participants and the Company, thereby
making it more difficult for the Company to raise funding on terms that are acceptable to the Company. In addition,
increased concerns about climate change and any negative sentiments about the Company’s industry and sector
may adversely affect the timing or ability to receive any required environmental permits that may eventually be
required prior to the potential Louisiana SMC facility going into production, the Bokan property becoming built into
an operating mine, and/or influencing IMC’s future expected customers and their ability to build and operate their
mines and generate feedstock for eventual processing in a potential RapidSX™ separation facility.

Trade Relations and Potential Impact of Tariffs

On March 4, 2025, the United States announced additional tariffs targeting Canadian imports 25% on Canadian
goods that do not qualify for the Canda-United States-Mexico Agreement (“CUSMA”) rules of origin and 10% on
certain Canadian “energy and energy resources” from Canada became effective. In response, the Government of
Canada imposed 25% tariffs on $29.8 billion in certain goods imported from the US and non-CUSMA compliant
vehicles imported from the US. Subsequently, Canada delayed the implementation of Phase 2 retaliatory tariffs,
imposed further tariffs on US autos in April 2025, and announced temporary remission measures to support
Canadian industry. Canada also implemented tariff-rate quotas on certain steel products in June 2025, cancelled
the Digital Services Tax later that month to advance trade negotiations. In August 2025, Canada removed retaliatory
tariffs on CUSMA-compliant US goods effective September 1, 2025, while maintaining measures on autos, steel
and aluminum; related remission processes continue to apply.

The full scope, impact and duration of such measures remain uncertain. Additionally, there is a possibility that the
trade dispute could escalate further, which may increase costs for Canadian exporters and may substantially impact
the trade relationship between the US and Canada. Additional measures imposed could include, among others,
increased tariffs on Canadian automobile exports, restrictions on cross-border supply chains or additional regulatory
barriers that could impact the Company’s ability to access international markets and conduct business efficiently.
The impact of the Tariffs on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition is unknown and
may be material and adverse. For example, the Tariffs, as well as any other measures or tariffs that may be imposed
in the future, may lead to increased costs for raw materials (such as feedstock), components and equipment, and
could impact existing operations of the Company.

Supply Chain Risk

On January 1, 2024, an Act to enact the Fight Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains Act and
to amend the Customs Tariff ("Supply Chains Act") came into force in Canada. Starting in May 2024, the Supply
Chains Act introduced a public reporting requirement that was applied to many governmental institutions and private
sector businesses, including Ucore. While there are no identified instances of the Company using forced labour or
                                                                                                         32 | P a g e
child labour in its supply chain, there is a risk that the Company’s supply chain may have actual or alleged forced
or child labour. Should such an instance arise, the Company would be required to take measures to address such
a claim or risk of a claim, including disrupting its supply chain operations in pursuit of such a remedy, which could
result in operational, financial, business or reputational harm. The recent Tariffs and retaliatory measures between
Canada and the US may result in additional sanctions or other international actions, any of which may have a
destabilizing effect on commodity prices and, more broadly, supply chains and global economies.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Controls over Financial Reporting

Disclosure controls and procedures (“DC&P”) are intended to provide reasonable assurance that material
information is gathered and reported to senior management to permit timely decisions regarding public disclosure.
Internal controls over financial reporting (“ICFR”) are intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles.

TSX Venture Exchange listed companies are not required to provide representations in their annual and interim
filings relating to the establishment and maintenance of DC&P and ICFR, as defined in Multinational Instrument 52-
109. In particular, the CEO and CFO certifying officers do not make any representations relating to the establishment
and maintenance of (a) controls and other procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information
required to be disclosed by the issuer in its annual filings, interim filings or other reports filed or submitted under
securities legislation is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in securities
legislation, and (b) processes to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with the Company’s GAAP.

Other Information
Additional information regarding the Company is available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and on the Company’s
website at www.ucore.com.




                                                                                                           33 | P a g e
                                                   Appendix “A”

                                            Ucore Rare Metals Inc.
                               Corporate Organizational Chart as at March 18, 2026




                                                Ucore Rare Metals Inc.
                                                      (Alberta)



                 100%
                                                                                                              100%
                                                               100%                     100%

                                        100%
Innovation Metals                                  Ucore Resources              Ucore Rare Metals (US) Inc.            Landmark Minerals Inc.
       Corp.                                           LP Inc.                           (Alaska)                        (British Columbia)
(British Columbia)                                  (Nova Scotia)



                          Ucore U.S., Inc.
                            (Delaware)                                                        100%                                  100%
                                                                50%


                        100%                                                                                         Landmark Minerals US Inc.
                                                                                 5621 NWT Ltd.
                                                                             (Northwest Territories)                        (Nevada)
                                                        50%
                Ucore North America,
                         LLC
                     (Louisiana)                                            50%



                                                              Mineral Solutions LLC
                                                                    (Alaska)



                                                                                      50%

                                                                                                       49.95%
                                       49.95%                  Rare Earth One LLC
                                                              (formerly Bokan LLC)
                                                                    (Alaska)


                                                                         0.1%


                                                              Landmark Alaska LP
                                                                   (Alaska)




                                                                                                                     34 | P a g e
                                               Appendix “B”
                     Ucore’s Mineral Exploration and Evaluation (“E&E”) Expenditures

For the year ended December 31, 2025

Details of Resource Properties and Related Deferred Costs

                                                                                       Bokan Mountain/
                                                                                        Dotson Ridge
Mineral Properties
      Balance, beginning of the year                                                   $    5,096,231
      Expenditures during the year                                                                -
      Translation adjustment                                                                 (151,349)
      Balance, end of the year                                                              4,944,882

Deferred Exploration expenditures:
         Environmental and permitting                                                         204,282
         Consulting and reports                                                                30,000
                                                                                              234,282
      Balance, beginning of the year                                                       36,399,279
                                                                                           36,633,561

      Translation adjustment                                                               (1,067,603)
      Balance, end of the year                                                             35,565,958

Mineral properties and deferred
  exploration expenditures, end of the year                                            $   40,510,840



For the year ended December 31, 2024

Details of Resource Properties and Related Deferred Costs

                                                                                       Bokan Mountain/
                                                                                        Dotson Ridge
Mineral Properties
      Balance, beginning of the year                                                   $    4,839,975
      Expenditures during the year                                                                -
      Translation adjustment                                                                  256,256
      Balance, end of the year                                                              5,096,231

Deferred Exploration expenditures:
         Environmental and permitting                                                         326,188
         Consulting and reports                                                                45,277
                                                                                              371,465
      Balance, beginning of the year                                                       34,220,220
                                                                                           34,591,685

      Translation adjustment                                                                1,807,594
      Balance, end of the year                                                             36,399,279

Mineral properties and deferred
  exploration expenditures, end of the year                                            $   41,495,510




                                                                                           35 | P a g e