Directors report are as follows:
                           • Signing a non-binding investement, Funding and
                              Development Term Sheet with Shenghe;
                           • Executing a binding offtake agreement and a non-binding
                              strategic EPC and funding MOU for the Ngualla Project;
                           • Signing a non-binding Debt Term Sheet supporting US$176.6m
                              of debt;
                           • Completing a Front-End Engineering and Design (FEED) Study;
                           • Initiating a Cost and Optimisation Study;
                           • Advancing early and enabling works and other technical
                              initiatives;
                           • Advancing resettlement and land valuation activities;
                           • Undertaking a critical minerals exploration programme that
                              confirmed widespread and high-grade mineralisation of
                              phosphate, fluorspar, niobium and rare earths;
                           • Signing a non-binding MOU with Minjingu Mines and Fertiliser
                              for the future supply of phosphate;
                           • Enlarging the Ngualla Project Special Mining Licence (SML)
                              area from ~18km2 to ~51km2; and
                           • Acquiring freehold title and commencing a sale process of the
                              Teesside industrial land site.



                        SIGNING A NON-BINDING FUNDING AND DEVELOPMENT
                        TERM SHEET WITH SHENGHE
                        On 24 July 2024, Peak announced the signing of a non-binding
                        Term Sheet (Shenghe Term Sheet) with Shenghe Resources Holding
                        Co., Ltd. (Shenghe) covering an integrated investment, funding
                        and development solution for the Ngualla Project. This represents a
                        significant de-risking milestone for the Ngualla Project and positions
                        it as the only rare earth development project globally with a complete
                        offtake, development and funding solution1.

                        As part of a fully funded solution, Shenghe is to invest ~A$96m to
                        subscribe for a 50% interest in Peak’s wholly owned subsidiary, Ngualla
                        Group UK Limited (NGUK), which holds an 84% effective interest in the
                        Ngualla Project. The difference between the Ngualla Project’s total
                        development costs and Shenghe’s NGUK investment of ~A$96m is to
                        be funded via a Shenghe arranged debt facility, which is expected
                        to be on terms more favourable than a typical international project
                        financing facility. Upon completion, Peak will not have to contribute
                        any further development equity to the Ngualla Project.



                        1
                         See 24 July 2024 ASX Announcement – Signed Term Sheet
                        with Shenghe for A$96m Investment and Fully Funded Project
12 | PEAK RARE EARTHS   Solution for Ngualla
Other key elements of the agreed Term Sheet include:
  • Formation of a Joint Owner’s Team to further optimise the Ngualla Project and
      reduce costs;
  • Shenghe to have a 55% share of NGUK net earnings or losses after tax for the first 5
      years following the commencement of commercial production;
  • Each party to appoint two Directors to the NGUK Board, with Peak retaining a casting
      vote;
  • Each party to appoint a Director to Mamba Minerals Board, with voting to be in
      accordance with NGUK instructions;
  • An extension of the existing standstill restrictions limiting Shenghe to a 19.9% interest
      in Peak to 30 September 2027; and
  • An industry standard right of first refusal mechanism.


                        Figure 1: Funding and Investment Structure




Completion of the NGUK investment remains conditional upon:
  • Shenghe being awarded an EPC, EPCM or EPS contract;
  • Shenghe delivering an actionable project funding solution;
  • Approvals from Chinese regulators; and
  • Peak and Shenghe shareholder approval.

Peak and Shenghe have agreed to work collaboratively to further optimise the Ngualla
Project and to expedite its development and construction.




                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 13
EXECUTION OF A BINDING OFFTAKE AGREEMENT
On 8 August 2023, Peak entered into a binding offtake agreement with Shenghe Resources
(Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (Shenghe Singapore), a wholly owned subsidiary of Shenghe.

Key terms of the binding offtake agreement include:
  • Products - 100% of rare earth concentrate and, subject to entering into subsequent
      binding offtake agreements, a minimum of 50% of any intermediate (e.g. a Mixed
      Rare Earth Carbonate) or final separated rare earth products (e.g. NdPr Oxide);
  • Take-or-Pay - Shenghe Singapore is obligated to pay for and take delivery of all
      agreed products;
  • Pricing – market-based pricing formula based on the value of contained rare earth
      oxides less deductions relating to VAT, trading fees as well as refining recoveries,
      charges and margins; and
  • Term - an initial term of 7 years, which may be extended by mutual agreement.

All conditions precedent within the Offtake Agreement have been either satisfied or waived.


SIGNING A NON-BINDING DEBT TERM SHEET SUPPORTING US$176.6M OF
DEBT
Prior to the signing of the Shenghe Term Sheet, Peak had, as part of a dual track process,
been exploring the potential of a South African led EPCM execution model supported by an
international project financing facility. In support of this alternate approach, Peak announced
on 16 July 2024 the signing of a non-binding indicative Lenders Consortium Term Sheet,
which underpinned aggregate debt of US$176.6m.

Following the signing of the Shenghe Term Sheet, it is expected that a Shenghe arranged
debt facility will be on terms more favourable than those included in the Lenders Consortium
Term Sheet. Accordingly, Peak’s primary focus will be to work with Shenghe on finalising an
attractive and actionable debt facility.

The Shenghe arranged debt facility may include some of the lenders within the Lenders
Consortium.

COMPLETION OF THE NGUALLA PROJECT FRONT-END ENGINEERING AND
DESIGN STUDY
A FEED Study on the Ngualla Project was finalised in November 2023 and re-affirmed the
Ngualla Project’s position as one of the world’s most advanced and attractive undeveloped
rare earths projects.

Key aspects of the FEED Study included the following:
  • Optimisation of the process plant, airstrip, road and Tailings Storage Facility (TSF);
  • Adoption of contracting mining and a hybrid Build Own Operate (BOO) power
      solution;
  • Progressing geotechnical and hydrological drilling;
  • Identification of capital cost savings including those attributable to roads, bulk
      earthworks, TSF, power, reagents and logistics; and
  • A reduction in operating costs through lower power, logistics and reagent solutions.




14 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Notwithstanding an allowance for global inflationary pressures in the updated cost
estimates, the FEED Study delivered materially lower capital and operating costs compared
to the BFS Update, which was completed in October 2022. Estimated upfront capital costs
decreased from US$320.7m to US$286.9m (an 11% decrease) and average annual operating
costs reduced from US$93.3m to US$76.7m (an 18% decrease).


PROJECT ECONOMICS
A summary of the updated project economics relating to the FEED Study is set out in
Table 1, which incorporates revised long-term price projections from Adamas Intelligence
(Adamas) published subsequent to the completion of the FEED study. The Ngualla Project
retains highly attractive project economics and valuations, including an estimated NPV8%,
real of ~US$809m (~A$1,245m) under the Adamas Base Scenario and ~US$584m (~A$898m)
under the Adamas Downside Scenario.

                                     Table 1. Updated project economics

                                                                         Pricing scenarios

                                             Adamas
 Financial Metrics*           Unit                           Adamas Downside US$120/kg (flat)             US$100/kg (flat)
                                               Base

 Net payability (LOM)          %               52.9%                 51.9%                50.8%                49.9%
 Average annual
                           US$m pa              355                  299                   235                   194
 revenue
 Average annual
                           US$m pa              238                   191                  134                   99
 EBITDA
 Peak NPV8%, real            US$m               809                  584                   384                  208

 Peak NPV10%, real           US$m               610                  427                   278                   132

 IRR                           %               30.8%                 26.1%                24.7%                 18.8%
*Financial outputs shown are net of distributions to the Government of Tanzania which include corporate taxes, royalties
and other fees, and dividends attributable the GOT’s 16% free-carried interest. Net Present Value estimations have used real
discount rates.


A summary of the All-In Sustaining Cost (AISC) profile for the Ngualla Project at different
NdPr Oxide prices is set out in the chart below. The AISC estimates are inclusive of operating
costs, by-product credits, royalties, rehabilitation provisions, sustaining capital expenditure
and shipping costs to China.

The chart highlights the financial robustness of the Ngualla Project and its capacity to
generate strong margins even at lower rare earth prices.

                                               Figure 2: AlSC analysis




                                                                                                 2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 15
Further details on the FEED Study outcomes are set in the Peak ASX Announcement dated 30
November 2023, titled “Ngualla Rare Earths Project Completion of FEED Study”. The Company
confirms that aside from the changes to rare earth pricing assumptions that have been
referenced in subsequent announcements and ongoing cost savings and optimisation
initiatives, at this time it is not aware of any new information or data that materially affects
the information included in the announcement and that all material assumptions and
technical parameters underpinning the estimates continue to apply and have not materially
changed.


COST AND OPTIMISATION STUDY
At the time of completing the FEED Study for the Ngualla Project, further optimisation and
cost reduction opportunities were identified. Following the enlargement of the Special Mining
Licence (SML) in April 2024 from ~18km2 to 51km2, an opportunity was identified to reconfigure
the layout of the project.

In June 2024, a Cost and Optimisation Study was initiated to cover these and other potential
optimisation opportunities including:
   •   Building relocation and layout optimisation – relocating buildings, plant and storage
       facilities from Ngualla Hill to flatter areas, reducing bulk-earthworks and required
       capex on the Plant Access Road;
   •   Optimisation of contract packages - including reducing unit rates via combining
       packages for earth works, civils, quarry, TSF construction and mining;
   •   Deferral of new airstrip – by remediating and expanding the existing airstrip;
   •   Increased plant availability - revising plant availability from 80% to 88% based on a
       peer benchmarking exercise;
   •   Re-scope buildings and storage facilities - utilising lower cost local construction
       solutions, removing unnecessary coverings and reducing storage capacity; and
   •   Adopting more competitive tendering solutions – supporting reductions in logistics
       and power costs.

Following the signing of the Shenghe Term Sheet, a Peak-Shenghe Technical Steering
Committee was formed, that identified the following additional cost reduction and
optimisation opportunities:
   •   Relocation of the TSF – from the top of Ngualla Hill to a flatter area within the
       enlarged SML;
   •   Adoption of a single flotation process – shifting from a two-stage fand a one-stage
       flotation process with the use of more selective bespoke reagents;
   •   Redesign of the processing plant – relocating the processing plant from Ngualla Hill
       to better optimise the use of gravity and to reduce reliance upon pumping; and
   •   Adoption of lower cost plant, equipment and engineering solutions – by utilising
       Shenghe’s longstanding relationships with vendors.

It is intended that the Wood Group will also assist in reviewing and assessing these
opportunities.




16 | PEAK RARE EARTHS         2
                               See 30 November 2023 ASX Announcement – Ngualla Rare Earth Project
                              Completion of FEED Study.
ADVANCEMENT OF EARLY AND ENABLING WORKS AND OTHER TECHNICAL
INITIATIVES
During the period, key early and enabling works and initiatives for the Ngualla Project were
advanced including:
  •   Completion of geotechnical drilling and core sample selection;
  •   Expansion of the existing Ngualla Camp including, construction of a new office
      building, upgrading IT, communications and safety systems and connecting the
      Ngualla Camp to the TANESCO power grid;
  •   Constructing a weather and communications tower;
  •   Identifying and developing several borrow pits and quarries;
  •   Commencing the extension of the existing airstrip;
  •   Advancing upgrade works to the Southern Access Road;
  •   Completing geotechnical assessments for the TSF and process plant areas;
  •   Undertaking a TSF breach analysis and re-evaluating the location of some
      infrastructure and plant.
  •   Finalising a water borehole drilling programme within the enlarged Ngualla SML;
  •   Progressing hydrology studies covering both project and Ngwala community water
      requirements;
  •   Completing additional ore variability analysis, which has increased confidence
      around responding to ore variation through minor adjustments to reagent dosages;
  •   Progressing planning around water treatment options and follow-up testwork;
  •   Completion of a Life Cycle Analysis for the Ngualla Project; and
  •   Ongoing baseline studies as part of an environmental management plan.



ADVANCEMENT OF RESETTLEMENT AND LAND VALUATION ACTIVITIES
Substantial progress was made on resettlement and land valuation workstreams during the
year.

Key activities progressed include:
  •   Engagement of a Tanzanian land valuer, Property Matrix, to support the co-
      ordination and delivery of an IFC compliant resettlement and compensation
      process;
  •   Meetings with the local Village Counsel, Songwe Region Land Commissioner and
      District Commissioner;
  •   Completion of the land area surveys;
  •   Assessment of the land, crop, building and asset compensation estimates; and
  •   Referral of the compensation estimates to the Village Counsel and the affected
      individual landowners.

Resettlement and land valuation activities are targeted to be finalised by October 2024.

CRITICAL MINERALS EXPLORATION PROGRAMME3
During the period substantial progress was made on a critical minerals exploration
programme targeting the multi-commodity potential of the Ngualla carbonatite system.
To date, the programme has focussed on two particularly prospective areas of the Ngualla
deposit:




                                                                     2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 17
         •    Northern Zone - prospective for a range of critical minerals including phosphate
              (used in fertilisers and lithium iron phosphate EV batteries), niobium (used in high-
              tech and green energy applications including niobium-titanium oxide EV anode
              cells) and rare earths (used in high strength permanent magnets in EVs, wind
              turbines, robotics and other electronic devices); and
         •    Breccia Zone – prospective for fluorspar (used in electrolytes within lithium batteries
              and to purify graphite anodes).

Key activities progressed during the year included:
         •    Development of a geological model for the Northern Zone;
         •    Assay of 344 trench samples from Breccia Zone; and
         •    Completion of 57 drill holes for 4,200m of total drilling across the Northern Zone and
              Breccia Zone.

A summary of the drilling is set out in the table below.

                                       Table 2. Exploration drilling programme

                            Northern Zone                       Breccia Zone                             Total

    RC                    44 holes / 3,104m                    11 holes / 885m                   55 holes / 3,989m

    DD                             -                            2 holes / 211m                      2 holes / 211m

    Total                 44 holes / 3,104m                   13 holes / 1,096m                  57 holes / 4,200m

Results
Drilling completed in the Northern Zone confirmed widespread and high-grade phosphate
mineralisation as well as high grade intercepts of niobium and rare earths. Key intercepts
included:
         •    NRC384 - 28m at 16.7% Phosphate (P2O5) from 6m and 41m at 22.9% P2O5 from 39m
              to end of hole;
         •    NRC388 - 40m at 20.3% P2O5 from 6m;
         •    NRC367 - 60m at 20.5% P2O5 from 10m;
         •    NRC368 - 32m at 22.0% P2O5 from surface, 10m at 19.5% P2O5 from 38m and 8m at
              22.3% P2O5 from 64m
         •    NRC356 - 14m at 0.55% Niobium (Nb2O5) from 14m including 10m at 0.61% Nb2O5 from
              14m, as well as 14m at 14.5% P2O5 from 16m;
         •    NRC372 - 62m at 1.26% Nb2O5 from surface including 36m at 1.88% Nb2O5 from 22m;
              the highest- grade niobium intercept at Ngualla to date; and
         •    NRC375 - 10m at 23.0% P2O5 from surface and 11m at 18.8% P2O5 from 46m.
Rare earth mineralisation within these assay results was also associated with enriched
levels of heavy rare earth elements (terbium and dysprosium) and a higher overall basket
value compared to rare earth mineralisation within the Bastnaesite Zone (which forms the
basis of the Ngualla Project’s Ore Reserves).
3
 Further details on the results of the critical minerals exploration programme are set out in the following ASX
announcements:
     •       18 December 2023 - First Assay Results from Exploration Programme
     •       5 February 2024 - Breccia Zone Trench Samples Assay Results
     •       26 February 2024 – Phosphate Bioavailability Test Results
     •       4 March 2024 – Further Northern Zone Exploration Assay Results
     •       20 March 2024 - Major high-grade fluorspar discovery
The Company confirms that at this time it is not aware of any other new information included in the announcements and
that all material assumptions and technical parameters underpinning the estimates in the announcements continue to
apply and have not material changed.

18 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
                  Figure 3: Northern Zone Assay Contours for Phosphate




Drilling results received from Breccia Zone trench samples demonstrated extensive high-
grade fluorspar mineralisation across the entire ~3.7km extent of the area supporting the
potential of a high-grade and globally significant fluorspar deposit. High-grade rare earth
mineralisation was also identified within the northern Breccia Zone.

Key intercepts from the Breccia Zone trench samples included:
  •   NC010 - 70m (end of trench) at 36% Fluorspar (CaF2) from 0m;
  •   NCS013 - 114m at 46% CaF2 from 32m including 44m at 65% CaF2 from 80m;
  •   NCS020 - 34m at 39% CaF2 from 42m including 8m at 68% CaF2 from 64m;
  •   NCS021 - 68m at 2.9% Total Rare Earth Oxide (TREO) from 24m including 6m at 6.9%
      TREO from 26m; and
  •   NCS023 - 28m at 2.0% TREO from 30m including 6m at 3.5% TREO from 38m.




                                                                     2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 19
                        Figure 4: Breccia Zone Drill Results Highlights




SIGNING OF A NON-BINDING MOU WITH MINJINGU MINES AND FERTILISER
In April 2024, Peak announced a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
Tanzanian phosphate and fertilizer group, Minjingu Mines and Fertiliser Limited (Minjingu
Mines) around the future supply of phosphate from the Ngualla Project.

Minjingu Mines has extensive experience in the Eastern and Southern African fertiliser market
and operates the Minjingu Phosphate Mine in Tanzania, one of the only active phosphate
mines in Eastern Africa, where it produces a range of organic and blended fertiliser products.




20 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Under the terms of the non-binding MOU, Peak and Minjingu Mines agreed to evaluate
potential co-operation around the future development of phosphate from the Ngualla
Deposit including:
       •   Mining and beneficiation;
       •   Offtake and sales arrangements;
       •   Transport and logistics; and
       •   Potential joint venture, co-investment, partnering and funding structures.

A joint study group was also formed to expedite the development of a low-cost phosphate
beneficiation flowsheet.

The MOU with Minjingu Mines followed an identified opportunity to supply phosphate into
the regional fertiliser sector. Preliminary bioavailability testwork completed during February
2024 confirmed the potential use of Ngualla phosphate as a direct application phosphorus
fertiliser, with composite samples showing high levels of bioavailability under standard
laboratory conditions.

                                       Figure 5. Bioavailability of phosphate




1
  ’High’ bioavailability – greater than 9.4; ‘’Medium’ bioavailability – between 6.7 and 8.4; ‘Low’ availability – less than 6
(‘Solubility Test in Some Phosphate Rocks and their Potential for Direct Application in Soil’, Gholizadeh et al, 2009)




ENLARGEMENT OF THE NGUALLA SML AREA
In April 2024, the Tanzanian Mining Commission approved a near tripling of the size of the
Ngualla Project SML area.

As provided under the terms of the Framework Agreement with the Government of Tanzania,
the enlarged SML area was expanded to include two Prospecting Licences previously held
within the Peak Group.

Following the enlargement, the total SML area increased from ~18km2 to ~51km2, providing a
substantial landholding to accommodate the initial development of the Ngualla Project as
well as exploration and growth initiatives.




4
    See 26 February 2024 ASX Announcement – Phosphate Bioavailability Test Results

                                                                                                     2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 21
Key benefits from enlarging the SML area include:
   •   A larger footprint to develop the Ngualla Rare Earth Project and associated
       infrastructure requirements;
   •   Capacity to relocate the TSF, power plant, processing plant and storage capacity
       from Ngualla Hill to flatter areas within the enlarged SML;
   •   Greater capacity to co-develop concurrent rare earths, phosphate and fluorspar
       projects as well as support future expansions;
   •   Increased flexibility around the location for a potential MREC facility, which is
       consistent with Peak’s longer-term downstream strategy; and
   •   Enables future exploration over the broader area.

Consistent with the multi-generational potential of the Ngualla Project, the initial term of the
enlarged SML has been extended to 30 years with an ability to apply for future extensions.


                        Figure 6: Enlarged SML area for the Ngualla Project




22 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
ACQUISITION OF FREEHOLD TITLE AND COMMENCING A SALE PROCESS OF
THE TEESSIDE SITE
In March 2024, Peak acquired freehold title over its 19-hectare Teesside site from Homes
England, which followed the exercise of a £1,858,712 option to enter a 250-year lease in May
2021.

Key benefits of freehold title include a higher land value relative to a long-term lease and
greater flexibility around future development and exit options.

The Teesside site is no longer a core asset given:
   •   The adoption of a sequenced development strategy entailing the initial
       development of the Ngualla Project as a standalone high-grade concentrate
       project; and
   •   A longer-term intention of developing Tanzanian downstream operations including
       a MREC facility.

Since entering into the option agreement in July 2018, the broader Teesside area has
established itself as an emerging green energy hub.

The site is also strategically positioned within the Teesside designated freeport and within
3km of the deep-water Teesport. It also benefits from existing access to reliable competitively
priced power, utilities and services.

Following strong inbound interest, Peak commenced a sale process for its Teesside site in
the United Kingdom. A sale of the Teesside site would provide Peak with an additional source
of capital.

BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND MANAGEMENT CHANGES
Board appointment
On 1 July 2023, Hannah Badenach was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.

Management changes
On 15 August 2024, Johan Coetzee commenced employment as the Ngualla Project Director
with responsibility to manage and oversee the construction and commissioning of the
Ngualla Project. Johan holds a 30-year track-record in developing and constructing African
mining projects and holds a Bachelor of Electrical Engineering, Master in Strategic and
Change Management and a Master in Project Management.

The following individuals ceased employment with Peak:
   •  Lello Galassi, Head of Development and Operations, resigned for health reasons in
      July 2024;
   • Following the successful execution of an offtake agreement with Shenghe, Andrea
      Cornwell’s role as Head of Marketing and Sales, was made redundant and she
      ceased employment in December 2023; and
   • Ray Anguelov, Head of Technical Services, ceased employment on 6 September
      2024.
Peak would like to thank Lello, Andrea and Ray for their substantial contribution to Peak and
the Ngualla Project.




                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 23
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company is exposed to various risks which could negatively affect the company’s
strategies, financial prospects, and activities. In accordance with the company’s Risk
Management Policy guidelines, during the period Peak evaluated the key risks inherent to
its business and stakeholders during the period. A comprehensive corporate Risk Register
is the framework for which risks are identified and controlled by the Executive Management
team, and to which the Audit, Risk & Sustainability Committee and Board has oversight.
The Risk Register defines and prioritises the risks, and pre and post mitigation ratings. Risk
owners are assigned and are responsible for mitigation action planning and review.

With respect to the governance of the company’s Risk Management Framework, the Audit,
Risk & Sustainability Committee assists the Management team to identify and manage
project and operations, commercial and financial, corporate and strategic, environmental,
social, governance and sustainability, and compliance and regulatory risks.

Material risks that were identified, reassessed, and managed by the company during FY2024
include but are not limited to the risks listed in table below (not in order of priority). The
mitigation and a year-on-year change to the risk trend is indicated via the following arrow
symbols;        (no change),      (increasing risk), (decreasing risk).




24 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
                      •   No reportable lost time injuries or fatalities were reported for the period.
Health & Safety       •   Risks are controlled through the Safety Management Plan in compliance
Risk                      with Tanzanian Law, the Occupational Health and Safety Policy, and IFC
                          Standard OHS Incident Reporting Guidelines.


                      •   Regulatory Compliance action plan regarding the establishment of the
                          Mamba entities in Tanzania was implemented.
                      •   Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy is in place.
                      •   Annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plan has been developed.
Regulatory Risk
                      •   In compliance with Tanzanian Law and IFC Performance Standards, the
                          land valuation, compensation and relocation of affected persons for
                          the Ngualla project is nearing completion (please refer to the Review of
                          Operations and Community Benefit Risk section for details).


                      •   Enlargement of the Ngualla SML area from ~18km2 to ~51km2.
                      •   Project costs and timeline amended following the FEED Study Update.
                      •   Advancement of enabling works and technical initiatives.
                      •   Identification of potential Ngualla Project capital cost savings.
Opertation &
                      •   Progressing with Shenghe on strategic, EPC and funding cooperation.
Technical Risk
                      •   Critical Minerals exploration programme confirming widespread and high-
                          grade mineralisation of phosphate, fluorspar, niobium and rare earths.
                      •   Optimisation test programs initiated for flowsheet design, grade, recovery
                          and optimisation.

                      •   Signing a non-binding Funding and Development Term Sheet with Shenghe
                      •   Execution of binding offtake agreement with conditions precedent satisfied
Counterparty &
                      •   Appointment of Macquarie Capital as Peak’s strategic and financial adviser
Funding Risk
                      •   Receipt of indicative, non-binding expressions of interest for a total of
                          US$176.6m in senior debt funding.

                      •   Updates to the Environmental and Social Management Plan for the
                          purpose of project construction, and development of an Environmental and
                          Social Action Plan.
                      •   Ongoing seasonal baseline water and water sourcing study completed.
                      •   Ecosystem Survey report and Bio-diversity studies completed.
Environmental
Management &          •   Progression of the company’s strategic Sustainability roadmap including
Sustainability Risk          ॰   Updated Materiality Matrix.
                             ॰   Completion of a Life-Cycle-Assessment.
                             ॰   Board incorporated Sustainability into the Risk and Audit Committee.
                                 The new Risk, Audit and Sustainability Charter can be found on our
                                 website.
                             ॰   Adoption of the Human Rights and Modern Slavery Policy.

                      •   Whilst rare earth prices have been impacted by several temporary
                          headwinds, the long-term outlook for rare earths remains positive with
Macro-economics           market analysts continuing to forecast a growing supply demand deficit
                          and rising prices for NdPr Oxide.
                      •   Current challenging equity and capital market conditions.

                      •   Following a Human Impact Study, a Land valuation and Resettlement
                          Action Plan (RAP) program is underway and due for completion later in
                          2024, in parallel with stakeholder engagement with Project-Affected People
                          (PAP).
Community
                      •   Ongoing impact assessment of the Ngwala-Kininga Road upgrade
Benefit Risk
                          completed in FY2022 considering the growth of agribusiness and
                          electrification of the local villages.
                      •   Ongoing community engagement and development of a 5-year Social
                          Development Plan.

                      •   Peak engages an Information Technology (IT) firm and uses specialist IT
                          solutions to reduce the impact and likelihood of a potential cyber security
                          event. This is supported by companywide security processes and offsite
Cybersecurity
                          real-time monitoring for early identification of potential events. As the
                          Company matures, it will continue to monitor and increase its cyber
                          security capability.


                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 25
05.               SUSTAINABILITY

                  KAZI WAJIBU UTU - FOR THE BETTERMENT OF HUMANITY
                  Our approach to sustainability is well captured by the Swahili phrase
                  kazi wajibu utu meaning ‘working responsibly to better humanity’. This
                  philosophy is reflected in our purpose "To be responsible for developing
                  and operating world-class and sustainable rare earth projects that
                  support global decarbonisation, local communities, and shareholder value
                  creation". Sustainability is a core value alongside Integrity, Accountability,
                  Safety, Health and Wellbeing, and Progressive Mindset, and is integrated
                  into every aspect of our business.

                  We recognise the importance of reducing our environmental footprint,
                  supporting our host communities, and embracing diversity. Our goals and
                  objectives are aligned to delivering ongoing improvements over time.

                  We are committed to an inclusive culture, striving to provide a recruitment
                  process as Peak and Mamba grow, that is fair, equitable and accessible for
                  all, as well as a work environment that recognises respect, and celebrates
                  our cultural differences.




  2017                             2018                             2021

2017                            2018                             2021
The first BFS was released      ESIA is approved by the          A new management
for Ngualla Project.            Tanzanian authorities.           team re-activates the
                                                                 Ngualla project under new
First baseline Environmental                                     Tanzanian mining laws.
& Social Impact Assessment
Study (ESIA) submitted.                                          Commence ESIA update
                                                                 work taking into account
                                                                 updated standards and
                                                                 project expansion.

       'We are working responsibly
       to build a better, greener
       and more sustainable
       future for our communities,
       customers and stakeholders'

26 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
                               2023
                               Incorporation of Tanzanian entities – Mamba Minerals
                               and Mamba Refining, execution of Framework
                               Agreement and granting of Special Mining License.
                               Binding Offtake Agreement and Funding MOU with
                               Shenghe.
                               FEED Study, ESIA update work, and Life Cycle
                               Assessment is completed.
                               Stakeholder Survey is conducted, and a new
                               materiality matrix is formed.
                               Completion of Health, Safety and Environment
                               Management Plan and Human Impact Study.
                               Board approves the inaugural Sustainability Policy
                               and Mamba Minerals begins establishing governance
                               and compliance systems and processes.
                               Positive impacts of Ngwala-Kininga road
                               reconstruction are tabled, and Community
                               engagement continues in themes of education, public
                               health and sponsorships.
                               Baseline water sourcing, water quality, Hydrology and
                               Hydrocensus, bio-diversity (wet season) studies were
                               completed.




  2022                           2023                           2024

2022                                                  2024
Shenghe becomes a substantial shareholder,            Human Rights and Modern Slavery
and a Strategic and Offtake MOU is executed.          policy is approved by the Board.
The BFS Update is completed, as well as the           The Risk and Audit Committee adds
Environmental and Social Management Plan.             ‘Sustainability’ to its charter.
Purpose, Values, Sustainability ambition and the      Inaugural Sustainability Report is
first materiality matrix is developed.                prepared.
The corporate risk register is adapted with           Groundwater Study completed.
Sustainability inputs.
                                                      Baseline data compilation from all
46 km Ngwala-Kininga road reconstruction              prior studies.
upgrade.
Tailings Dam Breach Impact Assessment Study.
Baseline bio-diversity (dry season) study, a
Health Survey Report and a Cultural Heritage
Report were all completed.


                                                                    2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Business Ethics & Governance
Peak is committed to conducting its operations ethically, with integrity, and in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations. We respect the written and customary laws and
practices where we operate. We work together with countries and communities to promote
ethical business practices, sustainable development, and equitable distribution of benefits.
These commitments are upheld within our Code of Business Conduct which is available on
our website.

Peak strictly forbids all forms of bribery and corruption and will take reasonable and necessary
steps to ensure that such conduct does not occur in Peak’s business operations. Our Anti-
Bribery and Corruption Policy ensures the effective monitoring and prevention of unethical
business practices. The Policy sets out the standards and practices that are expected of
Peak and its personnel and business partners and provides information and guidance to
those working with Peak on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues.
This is also supplemented with the Company's Whistleblower Policy. During the reporting
period there were no incidents of bribery or corruption reported.

These policies are reviewed annually by the Board and updated as required. Training will
be provided to all personnel, as appropriate, to ensure they are familiar with all prohibitions
and obligations imposed by the policies.




28 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Modern Slavery and Human Rights
We support universal human rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. The Human Rights and Modern
Slavery Policy can be found on Peak's website. Through this policy we recognise and respect
the wellbeing and dignity of all employees, contractors, families, and communities, and
promote civil relations and conflict prevention in the places where we work.

We will seek to engage with affected stakeholders to identify the most salient challenges
affecting its activities. At Peak we seek to respect and preserve the cultural knowledge and
practices of Indigenous Peoples, to engage with Indigenous communities based on the
principles of free, prior, and informed consent, and to promote appropriate and sustainable
development in a culturally appropriate manner.

Understanding the local regulatory context in Tanzania
We engage a specialist consulting firm to provide strategic advisory support on monitoring,
interpretation and compliance with applicable Tanzanian laws and mining licenses. Weekly
and monthly reports are provided to the management team. The support received forms
part of the risk mitigation actions undertaken as part of Peak's Risk Register.


COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Our Approach to Sustainability
Our sustainability governance is bounded by our Sustainability Policy. The Policy reinforces
our sustainability obligations to meet our responsibilities and objectives. Acceptance of the
Sustainability Policy is a fundamental term of engagement with the Company and is the
responsibility each person who works for, contracts with, or does business with the Company.
Implementation of the Sustainability Policy is the responsibility of management under the
oversight of the Company Secretary, and the Board.

Currently, the Audit, Risk and Sustainability Committee are responsible for the identification
and management of environmental, social and governance risks where appropriate. The
company is taking into consideration future alignment of remuneration and sustainability
targets for future remuneration policy reviews.

Our Sustainability Policy is available on our website.




                                                                      2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 29
Commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
Peak has assessed its Sustainability strategy and actions regarding the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals and are pleased to make these public commitments to
goals number 4, 8, and 12.



                    Peak’s longstanding work with the local communities over the years
                    continues to enable and improve the education for the local youth,
                    both in terms of school attendance, and in pass rates of national
                    examinations at all levels.


                    Peak looks to create local employment opportunities as the Ngualla
                    Project develops, promoting fair labour practices and driving
                    economic development in the regions where we operate, especially
                    through future job opportunities and by supporting the growth of
                    farming and agricultural trade in the region.


                    Peak will implement sustainable mining practices, minimise
                    environmental impact and promote efficient use of resources
                    throughout its project development.




Sustainability Ambition
We continue to work on our objective to integrate sustainability into every aspect of our
business. We strive to hold ourselves to the highest standards so that the Ngualla Project
becomes a long term, environmentally and socially sustainable supplier of choice in the
global rare earth market.

To ensure we fully embed sustainability into our business as we transition from development
to construction and production, we must ensure everyone is aligned with the purpose and
values of the business. Our statement of ambition articulates what sustainability means to
Peak. It aims to set a standard and give focus to the overall objectives of Peak’s sustainability
and ESG activities.

Strategic Plan
Our ESG roadmap ensures we are targeting global best practice as we mature, increase
our scope, and expand transparency. The roadmap timeline reflects and remains aligned
with the latest project timelines following the signing of the binding Framework Agreement
and issuance of the Special Mining Licence to Mamba Minerals Limited in April 2023, and the
commencement of the early works program.

The roadmap begins with establishing measurement systems to understand our current
level of ESG maturity. Once measurement systems have been established, the next stages
are to improve our ESG performance.




30 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
FY2022                                   FY2023
 •   Internal stakeholder engagement      •   Sustainability Policy formalised
     mapping
                                          •   External Stakeholder engagement
 •   Materiality assessment                   survey
 •   Sustainability positioning           •   Selection of priority materiality topics
 •   Annual Report                        •   Second Annual Report Sustainability
                                              section
 •   Gap review and roadmap finalised
                                          •   Governance Review




FY2024                                   FY2025
 •   Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)          •   Commence reporting against
                                              selected Frameworks and build
 •   Updated Materiality Assessment
                                              reporting metrics
 •   Preferred ESG frameworks selected
                                          •   Engage with ESG rating agencies
 •   Incorporation of Risk, Audit and
                                          •   Second sustainability report
     Sustainability Committee and
     Charter                              •   Supply chain / responsible sourcing
                                              engagement project
 •   Human Rights and Modern Slavery
     Policy
 •   Environmental and Social Impact
     Studies
 •   Inaugural sustainability report




                                                               2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 31
SOCIAL COMMITMENT
Health and Safety
The health and safety of all employees, contractors, visitors
and community members is of paramount importance. We                 Zero fatalities
are committed to the elimination and control of hazards and
the promotion and enforcement of safe working practices and          Zero TRIFR
behaviours.

In the Ngwala region, poisonous snakes are prevalent and are common within nearby
villages and the Ngualla Project SML. There has been prior incidences of fatal snake bites
in the community. To mitigate this risk, several measures have recently been implemented:

   •   Training programs                          •   Environmental controls
       We launched the first of our training          Efforts are made to maintain clean
       programs in June 2024 and all                  and snake-free surroundings. Fine
       Ngualla camp staff received                    mesh wires have been installed
       comprehensive snake handling                   around the camp to deter snakes from
       and first aid training, specifically for       entering the compound.
       snake bites.
                                                  •   Antivenom availability
   •   Health and Safety Personal                     Mamba has purchased antivenom
       Protective Equipment (PPE)                     for both Ngualla Camp personnel and
       The company has procured PPE                   community use.
       such as anti-snake gaiters to
       enhance personal protection from           •   Healthcare training
       snake bite prevention.                         The company is planning for training
                                                      of the personnel at the Ngwala Health
                                                      Centre, to ensure they are equipped to
                                                      administer antivenom if needed.




These measures aim to enhance the safety and preparedness of both the camp staff,
visitors and the local communities in the event of snake encounters.

In support of the local community, Peak has recently engaged a paramedic to support
the Ngualla Project Camp and the Ngwala Medical Centre. The Company also intends to
support the completion of the maternity ward at the Ngwala Medical Center.

32 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Diversity
We are dedicated to fostering workplace diversity throughout our corporate and site-
based operations. We understand the numerous benefits that stem from having a diverse
workforce and Board, such as attracting a broader pool of high-quality talent, enhancing
employee retention, incorporating varied perspectives and ideas, and fully leveraging all
available skills and expertise.

Diversity includes, but is not limited to, gender, age, ethnicity and cultural background. Our
commitments are upheld within our Diversity Policy which employees are expected to
comply. It is our intention to actively provide and maintain a fair and discrimination-free
workplace.

Formal female workforce targets are not explicitly set to ensure all available skilled workers
are available as candidates to the company, but we do desire and will strive for gender
diversity numbers with step-by-step improvements over time should male employment
dominate in the early years of our development in Tanzania.

                                                                  FY2024
                                                                                       Tanzanian
            Diversity Breakdown            Male          Female            Total
                                                                                       Nationals

 Peak Board of Directors                     4             2                 6             1
 Peak Employees                              8             2                 10           0
 Mamba Board of Directors                    5             0                 5            4

 Mamba Employees (Tanzania)                 17             5                22            21


Social value creation
We aim to enhance the communities where we operate by prioritising community
development, community benefits, security, and health, and safety. In addition to creating
employment opportunities, our social initiatives open doors for new and expanded
agricultural activities, fostering potential population growth in the area. This growth would
naturally lead to the development of associated infrastructure.

Road impact on agricultural trade
Last year, we disclosed our efforts in reconstructing 46 kilometres of the Ngwala-Kininga
Road in Tanzania. Through FY2024, with support from the Songwe District Council and the
Tanzanian Rural and Urban Road Authorities, we have conducted repairs on extensive
sections of the road degraded by heavy rains during the wet season. Our annual budget for
the project was approximately US$210,000. This work has continued to provide significant
positive impacts on the local Ngwala community by improving connectivity, social
development, and economic growth.

The road has improved accessibility which has lowered transport costs, driving greater
demand for agricultural trade and the community is benefitting from increased business
transactions and income. Since the Ngwala-Kininga road upgrade, prices of agricultural
products have been on the rise as buyers and trucks can now come directly to Ngwala
village to purchase and transport produce which has lifted the demand for the produce. The
renewed interest in agriculture, is increasing the size of the market for the farmers' produce.
To maintain this growth, we are developing a livelihood program aimed at enhancing the
income of individuals and households in surrounding communities and improving food
security. The program will span over a five-year period and involve engagement with local
agriculturalists to enhance current farming practices.




                                                                           2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 33
Road impact on health access
The road construction has also provided access
for the Government to commence construction
of the Ngwala Medical Centre. The centre will
ultimately consist of 13 buildings, including an
Outpatient Department (OPD) with six doctors’
rooms, a theatre, a maternity unit, male and
female wards, as well as laundry facilities.
The road has ensured efficient and affordable
transportation of construction materials. The
OPD building is currently operational, while other
buildings are still under construction. We are
currently collaborating with local authorities to
determine how we can further contribute to the
process, for example, with provision of medical
equipment and supplies. The medical centre
will service approximately 15,000 community
members.


Road impact on access to electricity
With greater accessibility to the local communities now available, the Tanzanian Government
has installed a power line from Kapalala ward to Ngwala that have brought electrification
to these communities that were not previously connected to the national electricity grid.
Before this, locals relied on the use of small solar panels and kerosene lamps. Powerline
installation is now complete with electric meters now being connected and electrification
infrastructure extended to the Ngualla Project’s camp facilities.


COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Each year in August the local communities celebrate Nanenane, “National Farmers Day”.
As part of these celebrations, Peak has been sponsoring a sports festival since 2014, which
sees various sports, games and singing and dancing take place. This year the company
hosted and was joined by three officials from the Department of Sports and Culture. At the
festival we launched various health awareness campaigns including a blood donation
drive. In collaboration with the Songwe District Medical Office, health attendants from the
Mwambani District Hospital conducted the blood donation program to address a shortage
of blood with the District Blood Bank.

Supporting local education
In August 2022, we commenced a reward program to
                                                              Since the program
encourage young students to participate in the Inter-
school Examination Program by providing incentives to         began, class
local students to support their educational outcomes.         attendance has
The program rewards students for taking the National
Examination which is essential for high school eligibility.
                                                              significantly improved
                                                              from ~60% attendance
Teachers have noted an increase in meaningful                 to nearly 100%.
engagement during class with students putting in
more effort to learn and pass their exams. Students who
perform well are rewarded with gifts such as exercise
books, pens, uniforms, and school bags.




34 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
We have also begun to reward students who demonstrate positive progress in their learning,
show good discipline, uniform cleanliness, and active participation in sports.

Previously, prizes were given on an annual basis, however this year, prizes will be given each
semester.

                                   Students who sat for   Students who passed
                                                                                   Pass rate (%)
                                      National exam            the exam

                                     2022       2023        2022      2023        2022      2023

Ngwala Kati Primary School            57         84          27        60          47         71
Ngwala Magereza Primary School        22         24          9         14          41         58
Itiziro Primary School                25         26          12        20          48         80
TOTAL                                104         134         48        94          46         70




Recently, the Company begun the construction of 2 new classrooms at the Ngwala
secondary school. The new classrooms will enable the school to take on additional students
and enable registration of new form one students next year. Upon completion, the School
will be eligible for secondary school registration which will open up additional funding from
the regional Government.

                                                                            2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 35
Electrification
During FY2024, Mamba Minerals entered into
an agreement with the Tanzanian Electric
Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), to
connect the Ngualla Camp to the local
power grid. Work to extend the TANESCO
electrification poles and wire infrastructure
to the camp commenced in May 2024 and
connection was completed in September
2024. The connection to the power grid
has materially reduced the usage of diesel
in on-site power generators. Tanzania's
national power is predominantly sourced
from hydropower and natural gas.


Managing our Social Impact
During FY2023, we completed Phase 1 of a Human Impact Study which was a comprehensive
survey of the impacted individuals and valuation of the land and livelihood that will be
impacted by the development of the Ngualla Project. Phase 2 of the Study began in FY2024
and includes community and individual consultation and negotiation for compensation
and developing a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) in compliance with Tanzanian laws and
IFC performance standards. Resettlement and land valuation activities are targeted to have
finalised by the end of October 2024.




ENVIRONMENT STEWARDSHIP
Environmental Management Approach
Our commitment to continual improvement of environmental, social and sustainability
performance is embodied by and implemented through an Environmental and Social
Management System (ESMS) and an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP).

Consistent with this approach, we will identify impacts and risks, set clear targets and
objectives, develop actionable management plans and monitor implementation. Through
regular compliance review and external feedback from stakeholders the project risks will be
adjusted, and targets and objectives revised, thus establishing a continual improvement
loop.




36 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
In June of 2023, we completed our ESMP for pre-construction phase of the Ngualla Project.
This ESMP is intended to identify, assess and provide management measures to mitigate
risks associated with environmental and social impacts because of pre-construction
activities. It sets out the risk management process to determine the significance of potential
environmental and social impacts.


CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT
We have a responsibility to participate in global efforts to combat climate change. We aim
to operate sustainably and incorporate decarbonisation strategies through electrification
and renewable energy technologies, reducing our carbon footprint where feasible.

The energy demand for the Ngualla site will be provided by a hybrid diesel and solar PV
power station that is supported by a battery energy storage system. The use of renewable
energy will significantly reduce the operating costs associated with power supply and has
the added benefit of reducing the Project’s carbon footprint. Solar PV generation is targeted
to contribute approximately 30% to overall generation.

After completing the project level Life Cycle Assessment, we recognised that the primary
climate change impact of the project comes from the use of diesel with mining equipment
and processing. To ensure we can cope with the uplift in energy demand as we transition
into construction and operational phases, we will require an increase in diesel consumption.
However, we will continue to strive to improve the share of renewable power. Our 2023 FEED
study already identified opportunities to increase solar penetration by potentially 10%.
Accessing the national power grid when electrification is completed imminently will also
improve as the national power is largely hydropower and natural gas. Long term wind and
other renewables will also be investigated.

Emissions reduction activities we will assess include:
   •   National grid power;
   •   Maximise solar power;
   •   Wind generation; and
   •   Responsible procurement.



BIODIVERSITY
We aim to prevent and minimise negative impacts and promote positive impacts to
biodiversity and the surrounding environment. Where negative impacts cannot be avoided,
we will implement mitigation and remediation measures in line with relevant legislation and
best practice principles, to reduce impacts on the environment.

Our updated ESMP contains a Biodiversity Management Plan (BMP) which outlines the
management measures that will be implemented during the pre-construction phase of the
Ngualla Project to minimise the impact on terrestrial and aquatic flora and fauna. The three
key objectives of the BMP are:
   • Protection of natural resources (flora and fauna) in the SML and downstream
      environment from impacts associated with Project activities;
   • Educating/sensitising employees on the importance of conservation; and
   • Promoting community awareness on importance of conservation.

We continue to conduct ecological field surveys to verify the classification of habitat and
determine the presence of species of conservation significance.



                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 37
06.               FINANCIAL REPORT




38 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report on the consolidated entity (referred to hereafter as the Group)
consisting of Peak Rare Earths Limited (“Company” or “Peak”) (ACN: 112 546 700) and its controlled
entities for the financial year ended 30 June 2024. In order to comply with the provisions of the
Corporations Act 2001, the directors report as follows:


DIRECTORS
The names of directors who held office during or since the end of the year and until the date of this
report are as below. Directors were in office for this entire period unless otherwise stated.

Russell Scrimshaw       Executive Chairman

Abdullah Mwinyi         Non-Executive Director

Shasha Lu               Non-Executive Director

Ian Chambers            Non-Executive Director

Nick Bowen              Non-Executive Director

Hannah Badenach         Non-Executive Director (appointed 1 July 2023)


INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS
Dr Russell Scrimshaw (AM) – Executive Chairman (Appointed 15 August 2022)
Russell is a distinguished corporate executive and company director with experience in large scale
mining project development and operations, product marketing, finance, business development
and technology. Russell was a founding director of Fortescue Metals Group and served in executive
roles including Deputy CEO and Executive Director. He was a key part of the management team
that developed Fortescue’s mining, port and rail operations and was instrumental in establishing
Fortescue’s strong relationships with large steel mill groups across a vast Asian customer base.
More recently Russell was Chairman of UK-listed Sirius Minerals PLC from 2011 to March 2020
(acquired by Anglo American in 2020), which is developing a large polyhalite fertiliser project in North
Yorkshire, in close proximity to Peak’s Teesside site. He has also held senior executive positions at the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Optus. Russell is currently Chairman of the Garvan Research
Foundation, a Non-Executive Director of the Garvan Institute of Medical Research and a Non-Executive
Chairman of ARI Pty Ltd.
Russell is a member of the Audit, Risk & Sustainability Committee, Nomination & Remuneration
Committee and Technical & Development Committee.
Russell held no other listed public company directorships in the past three years.

The Hon. Abdullah Mwinyi – Non-Executive Director (Appointed 15 November 2020)
Abdullah is a member of the Tanzanian Parliament, having entered Parliament in 2007. He has
also held roles as a Member of the East African Legislative Assembly (2007 – 2017), where he was
Chair of the Legal, Privileges and Rules Committee and the Regional Affairs and Conflict Resolution
Committee, and Chair of Swala Oil and Gas (Tanzania) plc. Abdullah is a lawyer by profession, having
been awarded a LLB and LLM from the University of Cardiff, and, in 2007, established Asyla Attorneys,
where he specialised in corporate, commercial, labour and employment law.
Abdullah has held no other listed public company directorships in the past three years.

Dr Shasha Lu - Non-Executive Director (Appointed 30 November 2022)
Since early 2014, Dr Lu has been the Managing Director of Shenghe Resources Overseas Development
where she leads and manages overseas investment, cross-border corporate management,
international trade and the building of a complete rare earth supply chain. Prior to that, Dr Lu was
an Executive Director and CEO of Hong Kong East China Non-Ferrous Mineral Resources Co. Ltd and
Sino-Australia International Mineral Resources Limited, responsible for overseas investment, scientific


                                                                               2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 39
research and management. Dr Lu has previous experience as a director of ASX-listed companies,
having been an Executive Director of Arafura Resources Limited (ASX:ARU) and an Executive Director
and Vice President of Globe Metals and Mining Corporation (ASX:GBE). Dr Lu holds a Bachelor and
a Masters of Medical Science from Nanjing University, a Doctorate of Medical Science (PhD) from
Tianjin Medical University & Karolinska Institute, a Post-Doctorate of Medical Science from Karolinska
Institute, and an Executive Master of Business Administration from Nanjing University. Dr Lu is also a
graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors (GAICD).
Dr Lu held no other listed public company directorships in the past three years.


Ian Chambers - Non-Executive Director (Appointed 20 March 2023)
Ian is a distinguished executive and company director with more than 35 years of experience in
international financial markets including institutional securities, wealth management and capital
markets. Ian spent approximately 24 years with Morgan Stanley Australia where he was Managing
Director, Head of Institutional Equities and Head of Wealth Management Australia. Ian has a proven
record in organisational development, governance, operational management and financial
performance. He is a member of ASIC’s Financial Services Credit Panel and Markets Disciplinary Panel
and was inducted into the Australian Stockbrokers Foundation Hall of Fame in 2015.
Ian has held no other listed public company directorships in the past three years.
Ian is Chair of the Audit, Risk & Sustainability Committee and a member of the Nomination &
Remuneration Committee.

Nick Bowen - Non-Executive Director (Appointed 5 June 2023)
Nick has extensive experience in the construction, development and operation of international
mining projects. He has spent over 35 years with ASX-listed construction and contract mining
companies operating in both Australia and overseas, including Africa. Previous roles include 12 years
as Managing Director of Macmahon Holdings Limited, two years as Executive Global Head of Mining
Services with Orica Limited and nine years as Managing Director of mining contractor, Eltin Limited.
He has also held the head executive role at the Lubambe Copper Mine in Zambia and the Shishen
Iron Ore Mine in South Africa. Nick is a Life Member of the Western Australian Chamber of Minerals and
Energy, Member of the Australian Institute of Mining and Energy and Fellow of the Australian Institute
of Company Directors.
Nick serves as a non-executive director of Aveng Limited (JSE) from 17 July 2023.
Nick is Chair of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Technical & Development
Committee.

Hannah Badenach - Non-Executive Director (Appointed 1 July 2023)
Hannah is an experienced executive and company director with more than 20 years of experience in
resources, supply chain, business development, commodity trading and marketing in global markets
across Africa, Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle East.
Hannah has extensive African and Chinese experience, has built and run multiple metal supply
chains across Africa (including Tanzania) and has an extensive network in China across sales and
marketing. She holds a Bachelor of Arts/Law (Hons) from the University of Tasmania and is a graduate
of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Hannah was a non-executive director of ASX listed public company, Aspire Mining Limited, until 31
January 2023.
Hannah is a member of the Audit, Risk & Sustainability Committee.


COMPANY SECRETARY

Phil Rundell – Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer (Appointed 16 December 2020)
Phil is a former Partner at Coopers & Lybrand (now PricewatehouseCoopers) and a Director at Ferrier
Hodgson. He has been a sole practitioner Chartered Accountant specialising in providing company
secretarial, compliance and accounting services for the last 12 years.


40 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
During the year, the principal activities of the Company included:
   •   Mineral exploration;
   •   Mineral processing technological evaluations;
   •   Mining and associated infrastructure feasibility evaluations;
   •   Rare earth offtake structuring and negotiations;
   •   Progressing funding, investment and development options for the Ngualla Rare Earth Project
       (Ngualla Project); and
   •   Progressing regulatory approvals for the Ngualla Project.


OPERATING RESULTS
The loss of the Group after providing for income tax amounted to $18,175,830 (2023: $32,800,639).
The material expenditures that contributed to the loss that were necessarily incurred to progress the
activities of the Company include:
   •   Employee benefits expenses of $4,047,706 (2023: $3,157,157) (refer to the Remuneration
       Report and Review of Operations);
   •   Administration and other costs of $3,050,146 (2023: $3,853,724) that include consultants and
       legal costs primarily associated with financing, offtake documentation, negotiation and
       advice, and insurance costs;
   •   Technical feasibility costs of $8,685,767 (2023: $3,297,432) on completion of the Front-End
       Engineering and Design Study (FEED Study), other technical studies and the early works on
       the Ngualla Project (refer to the Review of Operations); and
   •   Exploration and evaluation costs of $1,308,239 (2023: $nil) on the new critical minerals
       exploration programme (refer to the Review of Operations).
The basic and diluted loss per share for the Group for the year was 6.85 cents (2023: 15.38 cents).


FINANCIAL POSITION
The net assets of the Group have decreased from $88,883,143 at 30 June 2023 to $70,072,632 at 30
June 2024.
The Group’s working capital, being current assets less current liabilities, was $9,205,937 at 30 June
2024 (2023: $23,807,448).
The Company had $7,625,845 cash at bank at the end of the reporting period to fund the pre-
development activities in respect of the Ngualla Project, and corporate and administration
requirements.


DIVIDENDS PAID OR RECOMMENDED
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend and no amount has been paid or
declared by way of a dividend to the date of this report.


REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
The Review of Operations commentary is contained in the section above on page 12.


EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO REPORTING DATE
On 24 July 2024, Peak announced a signed non-binding Term Sheet with Shenghe covering an
integrated investment, funding and development solution for the Ngualla Project. Shenghe holds an
approximate 19.9% interest in Peak and appointed a nominee Non-Executive Director to Peak’s Board
in December 2022.




                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 41
Key elements of the agreed Term Sheet between Peak and Shenghe include the following:
    •    Investment structure – Shenghe to acquire a 50% interest in Ngualla Group UK Limited
         (NGUK), which holds an 84% effective interest in the Ngualla Project, through a subscription of
         new shares for ~A$96m;
    •    Fully funded solution – the balance of Ngualla Project development costs to be funded via
         a Shenghe arranged debt facility, which is expected to be on terms more favourable than a
         typical international project financing facility. Upon completion, Peak will not be required to
         contribute any additional equity funding towards the development of the Ngualla Project;
         and
    •    Term – in the absence of execution of transaction documentation, the Term Sheet will expire
         on 31 March 2025 unless mutually extended.

Other Term Sheet elements include an engineering delivery solution, profit sharing and incentivisation
payments and subsidiary Board representation.
The drafting of legally binding agreements is underway, together with preparations for satisfying
conditions precedent (including Peak shareholder approval).
Other than the matters referred to above there were no other events that have a material impact on
the financial statements or operations of the Group and Company.


SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN STATE OF AFFAIRS
Other than detailed in Note 24 of the financial statements (subsequent events) and in the Review of
Operations above, there were no significant changes in the state of affairs of the Company during
the financial year.


MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS
The number of meetings attended by each Director of the Company during the financial year was:

                                                              Audit, Risk &             Nomination &
                                                                                                                     Technical
                                Full meetings of             Sustainability             Remuneration
                                                                                                                    Committee
 Director                           Directors                 Committee                  Committee
                                                                                                                     Meetings
                                                               Meetings                   Meetings

                                  A             B            A             B             A            B             A            B

 Russell Scrimshaw                4             4            6             6             -            -             2            2

 Abdullah Mwinyi                  1             4            -             -             -            -             -            -
 Shasha Lu                        3             4            -             -             -            -             -            -
 Ian Chambers                     4             4            6             6             -            -             -            -
 Nick Bowen                       4             4            -             -             -            -             2            2

 Hannah Badenach^                 4             4            4             4             -            -             -            -


^Appointed during the year
A Number of meetings attended
B Number of meetings held during the time the Director held office and was a member of the relevant committee during the year.




42 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
EQUITY HOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS
As at the date of this report, the Directors’ interest in the Company were:

                                     Equity shares           Equity options       Performance Rights
Russell Scrimshaw                      1,200,000                   -                   3,100,000
Abdullah Mwinyi                         106,623                    -                    571,447
Shasha Lu                                 -                        -                    600,000
Ian Chambers                           1,700,000                   -                    600,000
Nick Bowen                              210,000                    -                    600,000
Hannah Badenach                        256,000                     -                    600,000

Details of issues made to directors during the period are provided in the Remuneration Report.


FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
Likely future developments in the operations of the Group are referred to elsewhere in the Annual
Financial Report.


ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
The Company is aware of its environmental obligations with regards to its exploration activities at
the Ngualla Project and the Teesside refinery site and ensures that it complies with all regulations
when carrying out any exploration work. The directors of the Company are not aware of any breach
of environmental regulations for the year under review.
The Directors have considered the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (the NGER
Act) which introduced a single national reporting framework for the reporting and dissemination
of information about the greenhouse gas emissions, greenhouse gas projects, and energy use and
production of corporations which exceed specified thresholds. At the current stage of development,
the Directors have determined that the NGER Act has no effect on the Company for the current or
subsequent financial year. The Directors will reassess this position as and when the need arises.


REMUNERATION REPORT (AUDITED)
The remuneration report outlines the director and executive remuneration arrangements for the
Group in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and its Regulations.

Remuneration Policy
The remuneration policy of the Company has been designed to align director and executive
objectives with shareholder and business objectives by providing a fixed remuneration component
which is assessed against market rates and offering specific share-based incentives based on key
performance areas affecting the Company’s activities, milestones and financial results.
The Board believes the remuneration policy to be appropriate and effective in its ability to attract and
retain skilled and experienced directors and executives to manage the Company.
The Board’s policy for determining the nature and amount of remuneration for Board members and
senior executives of the Company is as follows:
  The Company has a Nomination & Remuneration Committee to review the remuneration policy
  that sets the remuneration and performance terms and conditions for the executive directors
  and other senior executives. All executives receive a base salary (which is determined on factors
  such as length of service, expertise, experience and peer comparatives) and superannuation is
  paid for Australian resident employees and directors. The Company reviews executive packages
  annually by reference to the Company’s performance, executive performance and comparable
  information from industry sectors and other listed companies in similar industries.
  The Board may exercise discretion in relation to approving incentives, bonuses, performance
  rights and options. The policy is to attract the highest calibre of executives and reward them for
  performance that results in long-term growth in shareholder value. Executives and employees
  are also entitled to participate in the employee share arrangements.

                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 43
  The Board policy is to remunerate non-executive directors at market rates for comparable
  companies for time, commitment and responsibilities. The Board determines payments to the
  non-executive directors and reviews their remuneration annually, based on market practice,
  duties and accountability. Independent external advice is sought when required to align directors’
  interests with shareholder interests, the directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company
  and subject to shareholder approval are able to participate in the employee incentive plan. Non-
  executive directors are provided superannuation benefits in accordance with Australian statutory
  requirements, where the Non-Executive Director is a non-Australian resident the superannuation
  benefit is provided as an additional fee.
  All remuneration paid to directors and executives is valued at the cost to the Company and
  expensed. Options and performance rights are valued using the appropriate valuation
  methodology. Details of options and performance rights provided to directors are detailed in the
  Remuneration Report.

Non-Executive Director Remuneration
The total remuneration of non-executive directors has been set at a maximum of $700,000 (that
includes superannuation and excludes share-based payments) as approved by shareholders at the
29 November 2021 Annual General Meeting. It does not mean that the Company has utilised the entire
maximum sum of $700,000 approved for non-executive directors’ fees in each year. The total non-
executive director remuneration inclusive of superannuation for 2024 was $288,243 (2023: $247,222).

Performance Based Remuneration
The Company continues to review and consider the inclusion of performance-based components
built into director and executive remuneration packages.
The Company received approval from shareholders for adoption of an Incentive Employee Option
Plan (EOP), Incentive Performance Rights Plan (PRP), and Director Fee Plan at the Annual General
Meeting on 23 December 2020. On 15 June 2023 shareholders approved the adoption of an Employee
Incentive Plan (EIP) compliant with legislative changes.
The objectives of the EOP, PRP and EIP are to attract, motivate and retain key employees and the
Company considers that the adoption of the Plans and the future issue of securities under the
Plans will provide selected employees with the opportunity to participate in the future growth of the
Company.
During the year the following director and executive performance rights were issued/ exercised/
lapsed or were cancelled:
Issued:
   •   3,210,000 incentive performance rights expiring 9 November 2028
   •   2,311,404 incentive performance rights expiring 30 November 2028


Exercised:
   •   1,289,868 vested performance rights with an exercise price of $nil


Lapsed:
   •   nil




44 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Company Performance, Shareholder Returns and Director’s and Executive’s Remuneration
Summary of Group’s performance and movements in the Peak Rare Earths Limited share price over
the last five years:

                                           2024                  2023                  2022                  2021                 2020
 Total income ($)                       956,995                697,986                 8,602                111,008            12,374,452
 Net profit/(loss) before
                                      (18,175,830)         (32,800,639)*          (22,731,602)          (4,770,848)            7,652,714#
 tax ($)
 Net profit/(loss) after
                                      (18,175,830)          (32,800,639)          (22,731,602)          (4,770,848)            7,652,714#
 tax ($)
 Closing share price at
 end of year (cents),                     $0.185                $0.465                $0.295                $0.100               $0.210
 adjusted^
 Basic earnings/(loss)
                                          (6.85)                (15.38)               (11.66)               (3.13)                6.52
 per share (cents)^
 Dividends per share
                                             -                      -                     -                    -                    -
 (cents)

*Includes a share based payment for government participation of $21,189,140 for the accounting valuation on the issue of the 16% free carried
interest in the Ngualla Project to the Government of Tanzania.
#
  Includes gain on remeasurement of financial liabilities of $1.7 million and gain on derecognition of associate of $10.4 million.
^
  Note that the closing share price at end of year (cents) and the basic earnings/(loss) per share have been adjusted to reflect the effects of
the 1 for 10 share consolidation on 9 December 2021.

The remuneration policy has been tailored to increase goal congruence between shareholders,
directors and executives. Currently, this is facilitated through a policy to issue performance rights to
the majority of directors and executives to encourage the alignment of personal and shareholder
interests. The Company believes the policy will be effective in increasing shareholder wealth. Details
of directors and executives’ interests in shares and options at year end are detailed below.

Details of KMP Remuneration
The relevant Key Management Personnel (KMP) of the group for the 2024 financial year were:
    •    Russell Scrimshaw - Executive Chairman;
    •    Abdullah Mwinyi - Non-Executive Director;
    •    Shasha Lu - Non-Executive Director;
    •    Ian Chambers - Non-Executive Director;
    •    Nick Bowen - Non-Executive Director;
    •    Hannah Badenach - Non-Executive Director (appointed 1 July 2023);
    •    Bardin Davis - Chief Executive Officer;
    •    Philip Rundell - Chief Financial Officer & Company Secretary;
    •    Lello Galassi - Head of Development & Operations;
    •    Andrea Cornwell - Head of Marketing & Sales (ceased employment 15 December 2023); and
    •    Ray Anguelov - Head of Technical Services.

Total KMP remuneration for the year was:
                                                                    2024                                             2023
                                                                      $                                               $
 Salary and fees                                                  2,161,822                                        1,987,358
 Superannuation                                                    72,881                                          103,399
 Share based payments*                                            1,351,723                                        1,457,999
 Termination payments                                              36,058                                              -
 Total                                                          3,622,484                                       3,548,756
*Share Based Payments are non-cash components of remuneration and the consideration reported is an accounting value determined
in accordance with AASB 2. Inclusive in the consideration reported is the accounting value of unvested performance rights subject to
performance milestones that as at 30 June 2024 had not yet been achieved. The cash benefit of the unvested performance rights will only be
received by the KMP following any sale of the resultant shares, which can only be attained after the rights have vested, been exercised and
the shares are issued.
                                                                                                            2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 45
Remuneration of individual KMP’s:
                                   Short term benefits             Post-employment             Share based payments*                                                           Proportion related to:
                                                                                                                                   Termination
                                                                                           Performance                                                    Total
                            Salary & fees       Non-monetary        Superannuation                                Options           Payments                                 Equity          Performance
                                                                                              Rights*
    30-Jun-24                      $                   $                     $                    $                   $                  $                  $                  %                    %
    Directors
    Russell Scrimshaw          210,000                 -                  20,350               719,046                -                  -              949,396                0%                 76%
    Abdullah Mwyini             55,125                 -                     -                 35,518                 -                  -               90,643                0%                 39%
    Shasha Lu                   55,500                 -                     -                 27,055                 -                  -               82,555                0%                 33%
    Ian Chambers                55,000                 -                  6,050                57,608                 -                  -               118,658               0%                 49%
    Nick Bowen                  55,000                 -                  6,068                27,055                 -                  -               88,123                0%                  31%
    Hannah Badenach             55,500                 -                     -                 27,055                 -                  -               82,555                0%                 33%
                               486,125                 -                 32,468               893,337                 -                  -              1,411,930             0%                  63%
    Executives
    Bardin Davis               412,500                 -                  27,500              295,254                 -                  -               735,254               0%                 40%
    Philip Rundell             257,500                 -                     -                 46,749                 -                  -              304,249                0%                  15%
    Lello Galassi              498,029                 -                     -                 59,152                 -                  -               557,181               0%                  11%
    Andrea Cornwell   1
                               166,974                 -                  12,913               57,231                 -               36,058             273,176               0%                  21%
    Raytcho Anguelov           340,694                 -                     -                    -                   -                  -              340,694                0%                  0%
                              1,675,697                -                  40,413              458,386                 -               36,058            2,210,554             0%                   21%
    Total                      2,161,822               -                  72,881              1,351,723               -               36,058           3,622,484              0%                  37%
*Share Based Payments are non-cash components of remuneration and the consideration reported is an accounting value determined in accordance with AASB 2. Inclusive in the consideration reported is the
accounting values of unvested performance rights subject to performance milestones that as at 30 June 2024 had not yet been achieved. The cash benefit of the unvested performance rights will only be received
by the KMP following any sale of the resultant shares, which can only be attained after the rights have vested, been exercised and the shares are issued.
Mrs Cornwell ceased to be an employee on 15 December 2023 but continued to provide services as and when required as an engaged consultant.
1




46 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Remuneration of individual KMP’s:

                                   Short term benefits             Post-employment             Share based payments*                                                           Proportion related to:
                                                                                                                                   Termination
                                                                                           Performance                                                    Total
                            Salary & fees       Non-monetary        Superannuation                                Options^          Payments                                Equity #         Performance #
                                                                                              Rights^
 30-Jun-23                         $                   $                     $                    $                   $                  $                  $                  %                    %
 Directors
 Russell Scrimshaw1            105,484                 -                  11,076               271,349                -                  -               387,909               0%                  70%
 Abdullah Mwyini2               55,000                 -                     -                 35,673                 -                  -               90,673                0%                  39%
 Shasha Lu3                     32,242                 -                     -                    -                   -                  -               32,242                0%                  0%
 Ian Chambers     4
                                 14,113                -                   1,482                3,283                 -                  -                18,878               0%                  17%
 Nick Bowen5                     3,611                 -                   379                    -                   -                  -                3,990                0%                  0%
 Tony Pearson                   55,443                 -                  5,822                177,296                -                  -               238,561               0%                  74%
 Giles Stapleton    6
                                46,528                 -                  4,885                12,500                 -                  -                63,913               0%                  20%
 Giselle Collins7               25,083                 -                  2,634                   -                   -                  -                27,717               0%                  0%
                               337,504                 -                  26,278               500,101                -                  -              863,883                0%                 58%
 Executives
 Bardin Davis8                 350,000                 -                  27,500              590,614                 -                  -               968,114               0%                  61%
 Philip Rundell                240,000                 -                     -                 83,697                 -                  -               323,697               0%                  26%
 Lello Galassi                 444,186                 -                     -                 113,984                -                  -               558,170               0%                  20%
 Andrea Cornwell               312,500                 -                  27,500               85,137                 -                  -               425,137               0%                  20%
 Raytcho Anguelov       9
                                45,449                 -                     -                    -                   -                  -               45,449                0%                  0%
 Mark Godfrey10                 257,719                -                  22,121               84,466                 -                  -              364,306                0%                  23%
                              1,649,854                -                  77,121              957,898                 -                  -             2,684,873               0%                 36%
 Total                        1,987,358                -                 103,399             1,457,999                -                  -             3,548,756               0%                  41%

*Share Based Payments are non-cash components of remuneration and the consideration reported is an accounting value determined in accordance with AASB 2. Inclusive in the consideration reported is the
accounting values of unvested performance rights subject to performance milestones that as at 30 June 2023 had not yet been achieved. The cash benefit of the unvested performance rights will only be received
by the KMP following any sale of the resultant shares, which can only be attained after the rights have vested, been exercised and the shares are issued.
^Includes the write back of the share-based payments previously recognised for options and performance rights that lapsed during the current period.
#
  The % excludes the value of the options which were written back during the year
1
 Mr Scrimshaw was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on 15 August 2023.
2
  Mr Mwinyi received a prepayment of his director fees for the period 1 July 2023 to 31 March 2024 of $41,250 not included in his reported 30 June 2023 salary & fees.
3
  Ms Lu was appointed to the role of Non-Executive Director on 30 November 2022.
4
  Mr Chambers was appointed to the role of Non-Executive Director on 20 March 2023.
5
  Mr Bowen was appointed to the role of Non-Executive Director on 5 June 2023.
6
  Mr Stapleton resigned 5 June 2023.
7
  Mrs Collins resigned 9 November 2022.
8
  Mr Davis stepped down as MD on 9 July 2022 to take on the CEO role, his full remuneration is reported under the executive section.
9
  Mr Anguelov was appointed to the role of Head of Technical Services on 15 May 2023.
10
  Mr Godfrey was from his executive role on 13 April 2023 but continues to provide services as and when required as an engaged consultant.




                                                                                                                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 47
Performance rights and options granted / vested / lapsed during the year ended 30 June 2024

Movements in performance rights during the year:

                                                   Number of           Fair value per                                                                                                         Number lapsed/
                                                                                             Total value of                                                                Number vested
 30-Jun-24                   Date of issue       performance           performance                              Vesting Date#       Exercise Price       Expiry Date                          cancelled during
                                                                                                issue $^                                                                   during the year
                                                 rights issued              right*                                                                                                               the year
 Directors
 Russell Scrimshaw                                                                                                 21-Jun-24              $nil            15-Dec-26            900,000                 -
 Abdullah Mwyini               4-Dec-23              511,404               $0.385               196,891                 -                  -             30-Nov-28                 -                   -
 Abdullah Mwyini                   -                    -                     -                     -             29-Nov-23               $nil            5-Feb-25              7,500                  -
 Abdullah Mwyini                   -                    -                     -                     -              21-Jun-24              $nil            9-Dec-25              21,053                 -
 Shasha Lu                     4-Dec-23             600,000                $0.385               231,000                 -                  -             30-Nov-28                 -                   -
 Ian Chambers                  9-Nov-23             600,000                $0.500               300,000                 -                  -              9-Nov-28                 -                   -
 Nick Bowen                    4-Dec-23             600,000                $0.385               231,000                 -                  -             30-Nov-28                 -                   -
 Hannah Badenach               4-Dec-23             600,000                $0.385               231,000                 -                  -             30-Nov-28                 -                   -
                                                    2,911,404                                  1,189,891                                                                       928,553                 -
 Executives
 Bardin Davis                  9-Nov-23             1,700,000              $0.385               654,500                 -                  -              9-Nov-28                 -                   -
 Bardin Davis                      -                    -                     -                     -             29-Nov-23               $nil            5-Feb-25             187,500                 -
 Bardin Davis                      -                    -                     -                     -              21-Jun-24              $nil            9-Dec-25             200,000
 Philip Rundell                9-Nov-23              410,000               $0.385               157,850                 -                  -              9-Nov-28                 -                   -
 Philip Rundell                    -                    -                     -                     -              21-Jun-24              $nil            9-Dec-25             80,000                  -
 Philip Rundell                    -                    -                     -                     -             23-Nov-23               $nil           23-Sep-26              10,000                 -
 Lello Galassi                     -                    -                     -                     -             29-Nov-23               $nil           23-Sep-26              75,000                 -
 Andrea Cornwell                   -                    -                     -                     -              8-Aug-23               $nil           23-Sep-26             112,500                 -
 Raytcho Anguelov              9-Nov-23             500,000                $0.385               192,500                 -                  -              9-Nov-28                 -                   -
                                                   2,610,000                                   1,004,850                                                                      665,000                  -
 Total                                             5,521,404                                   2,194,741                                                                      1,593,553                -

^The Performance Rights were granted for no consideration and the employee received no cash benefit at the time of receiving the rights. The cash benefit will be received by the employee following any sale of
the resultant shares, which can only be attained after the rights have vested, been exercised and the shares are issued.
* For performance rights with non-market conditions, the fair value is measured using the closing share price at grant date. For performance rights with market conditions, the fair value is measured using a
binomial pricing model.
#
  For vesting of performance rights with the same expiry date occurring on multiple dates during the period the most recent date is reported in the table.




48 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Movements in options during the year:

There were no options granted / vested / lapsed during the year.

Performance rights and options granted / vested / lapsed during the year ended 30 June 2023

Movements in performance rights during the year:

                                                   Number of           Fair value per                                                                                                         Number lapsed/
                                                                                             Total value of                                                                Number vested
 30-Jun-23                   Date of issue       performance           performance                               Vesting Date#      Exercise Price       Expiry Date                          cancelled during
                                                                                                issue $^                                                                   during the year
                                                 rights issued              right*                                                                                                               the year
 Directors
 Russell Scrimshaw            15-Dec-22            3,500,000               $0.475              1,662,500                -                 $nil           30-Nov-26                 -                   -
 Russell Scrimshaw            15-Dec-22             250,000                $0.440               110,000                 -                 $nil           30-Nov-26                 -                   -
 Russell Scrimshaw            15-Dec-22             250,000                $0.360               90,000                  -                 $nil           30-Nov-26                 -                   -
 Tony Pearson                      -                    -                     -                     -             25-Apr-23               $nil            5-Feb-24              75,000                 -
 Tony Pearson                      -                    -                     -                     -              17-Apr-23              $nil            9-Dec-25             200,000                 -
 Abdullah Mwinyi                   -                    -                     -                     -             25-Apr-23               $nil            5-Feb-25              15,000                 -
 Abdullah Mwinyi                   -                    -                     -                     -              17-Apr-23              $nil            9-Dec-25              28,070                 -
 Giselle Collins                   -                    -                     -                     -                   -                 $nil            9-Dec-25                 -               (100,000)
 Giles Stapleton              15-Dec-22              100,000               $0.475                47,500           17-April-23             $nil            15-Dec-26             26,316             (73,684)
                                                   4,100,000                                   1,910,000                                                                       344,386             (173,684)
 Executives
 Bardin Davis                                                                                                     25-Apr-23               $nil            5-Feb-24             375,000                 -
 Bardin Davis                                                                                                      17-Apr-23              $nil            9-Dec-25             300,000                 -
 Philip Rundell                                                                                                    17-Apr-23              $nil            9-Dec-25              80,001                 -
 Philip Rundell               23-Sep-22              100,000               $0.480               48,000            30-Jun-23               $nil           23-Sep-26             30,000                  -
 Mark Godfrey                 23-Sep-22             500,000                $0.480               240,000           30-Jun-23               $nil           23-Sep-26             169,000                 -
 Lello Galassi                23-Sep-22             500,000                $0.480               240,000           30-Jun-23               $nil           23-Sep-26             175,000                 -
 Andrea Cornwell              23-Sep-22             450,000                $0.480               216,000           30-Jun-23               $nil           23-Sep-26             112,500                 -
                                                   1,550,000                                    744,000                                                                       1,241,501                -
 Total                                             5,650,000                                   2,654,000                                                                      1,585,887            (173,684)

^The Performance Rights were granted for no consideration and the employee received no cash benefit at the time of receiving the rights. The cash benefit will be received by the employee following any sale of
the resultant shares, which can only be attained after the rights have vested, been exercised and the shares are issued.
* For performance rights with non-market conditions, the fair value is measured using the closing share price at grant date. For performance rights with market conditions, the fair value is measured using a
binomial pricing model.
#
  For vesting of performance rights with the same expiry date occurring on multiple dates during the period the most recent date is reported in the table.




                                                                                                                                                                                2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 49
Movements in options during the year:

                                                                                                                                                            Number lapsed/
                                         Number of       Fair value per   Total value of                                                  Number vested
30-Jun-23               Date of issue                                                      Vesting Date#   Exercise Price   Expiry Date                     cancelled during
                                        options issued      Option*          issue $                                                      during the year
                                                                                                                                                               the year
Directors
Russell Scrimshaw                             -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Abdullah Mwyini                               -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Shasha Lu                                     -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Ian Chambers                                  -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Nick Bowen                                    -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Tony Pearson                                  -                -                -                              $1.50        21-Jun-23           -              (500,000)
Giles Stapleton                               -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Giselle Collins                               -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
                                              -                -                -                                                               -              (500,000)
Executives
Bardin Davis
Philip Rundell                                -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Lello Galassi                                 -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Andrea Cornwell                               -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Raytcho Anguelov                              -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Mark Godfrey                                  -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
                                              -                -                -                                -                              -                  -
Total                                         -                -                -                                -                              -              (500,000)




50 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Shareholdings of KMP’s


 30-Jun-24                                Opening Balance               Granted as Remuneration   Exercise of Options/PRs   Market/ Other Movements       Closing Balance


 Directors
 Russell Scrimshaw                             300,000                                -                  575,000                       -                     875,000
 Abdullah Mwinyi                                78,070                                -                   21,535                       -                      99,605
 Shasha Lu                                         -                                  -                     -                          -                        -
 Ian Chambers                                  1,200,000                              -                     -                       500,000                  1,700,000
 Nick Bowen                                     110,000                               -                     -                       100,000                   210,000
 Hannah Badenach                                   -                                  -                     -                       256,000                  256,000
                                              1,688,070                               -                  596,535                   856,000                   3,140,605
 Executives
 Bardin Davis                                  1,580,510                              -                  287,500                       -                     1,868,010
 Philip Rundell                                 105,001                               -                   68,333                       -                      173,334
 Lello Galassi                                  100,000                               -                  150,000                       -                     250,000
 Ray Anguelov                                      -                                  -                     -                          -                        -
 Andrea Cornwell                                37,500                                -                  187,500                   (225,000)                    -
                                               1,823,011                              -                  693,333                   (225,000)                 2,291,344
 Total                                         3,511,081                              -                 1,289,868                   631,000                  5,431,949

* Ceased to be KMP’s during the period and their holdings are not reported at period end.




                                                                                                                                                      2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 51
Performance Rights Holdings of KMP’s

                                                        Granted as             Exercise of Options
 30-Jun-24                 Opening Balance                                                                Expired/ Lapsed           Other Movements            Closing Balance   Vested at 30 June
                                                       Remuneration                   & PRs

 Directors
 Russell Scrimshaw             4,000,000                      -                     (575,000)                      -                         -                      3,425,000        325,000
 Abdullah Mwinyi                 88,596                    511,404                   (21,535)                      -                         -                       578,465           7,018
 Shasha Lu                          -                     600,000                       -                          -                         -                       600,000            -
 Ian Chambers¹                      -                     600,000                       -                          -                         -                       600,000            -
 Nick Bowen                         -                     600,000                       -                          -                         -                       600,000            -
 Hannah Badenach                    -                     600,000                       -                          -                         -                       600,000            -
                               4,088,596                  2,911,404                (596,535)                      -                          -                      6,403,465        332,018
 Executives
 Bardin Davis                  1,700,000                  1,700,000                 (287,500)                      -                         -                      3,112,500         100,000
 Philip Rundell                 194,999                    410,000                  (68,333)                       -                         -                       536,666          26,667
 Lello Galassi                  400,000                       -                     (150,000)                      -                         -                       250,000            -
 Ray Anguelov                       -                     500,000                       -                          -                         -                       500,000            -
 Andrea Cornwell*               412,500                       -                     (187,500)                      -                    (225,000)                       -               -
                               2,707,499                 2,610,000                 (693,333)                      -                     (225,000)                   4,399,166         126,667
 Total                         6,796,095                 5,521,404                 (1,289,868)                    -                     (225,000)                   10,802,631       458,685

Note that balances pre share consolidation have been adjusted to reflect the effects of the 1 for 10 share consolidation on 9 December 2021.
* Ceased to be KMP’s during the period and their holdings are not reported at period end.
1
 Mr Chambers was offered 600,000 performance rights, which were approved by shareholders on 15 June 2023, these performance rights were issued during the period.




52 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Performance income as a proportion of total income
No bonuses have been paid to executives during the year.

Service agreements:
The key terms of the service agreements with the KMP’s are:

Russell Scrimshaw (Executive Chairman from 15 August 2022)
Russell is appointed as an Executive Director by letter of agreement. The Executive Director appointment
has no fixed term and ceases on resignation or removal as a director in accordance with the
Corporations Act 2001. Executive Chairman fees are currently set at $300,000 plus superannuation
entitlements per annum and are subject to an annual review. Following a salary review by a recognised
consultant and approval by the Board, the Executive Chairman fees were increased from $120,000 to
$300,000 on 1 January 2024.

Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letter of agreement. The Director appointments have no
fixed term and cease on resignation or removal as a director in accordance with the Corporations
Act 2001. Fees are currently set at $50,000 plus superannuation entitlements per annum, with non-
resident directors entitled to receive the superannuation component as fees. Subject to shareholder
approval the Non-Executive Directors are eligible to be offered and issued performance rights under
the Company’s Performance Rights and Employee Incentive Plans.
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to an additional fee for Chairing the various committees, with the
Chair fee for the Audit, Risk & Sustainability Committee being $10,000 per annum, and the Chair fees
for the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Technical & Development Committee being
$5,000 per annum, with the additional fees attracting statutory superannuation.

Bardin Davis – Managing Director - (Non-Executive Director from 21 Oct 2020, Managing Director
from 9 Dec 2020, Chief Executive Officer from 9 July 2022)
Bardin is employed under an Executive Service Agreement (ESA). Following a salary review by a
recognised consultant and approval by the Board, Badin’s salary was increased on 1 September 2023
from $350,000 to $425,000 plus statutory superannuation. Bardin is entitled to leave in accordance
with the relevant legislation. The engagement had no fixed term but is subject to a six-month notice
period from either party.

Philip Rundell – CFO & Company Secretary (Appointed 16 December 2020)
Philip is employed under a consulting agreement with the Company with a fixed retainer of $25,000
per month. The engagement has no fixed term.

Lello Galassi – Head of Development and Operations - (Appointed 20 September 2021, ceased 7
July 2024)
Lello was employed under an Executive Service Agreement (ESA). The ESA provided for an annual
salary of USD$300,000 plus discretionary performance bonuses and 24 days of annual leave per
year. The engagement had no fixed term but was subject to a three-month notice period from either
party. Lello resigned on 8 April 2024, and he ceased employment with the Company on 7 July 2024.
During the period, Lello received a final payment to satisfy all accrued leave and notice entitlements
under his ESA.

Andrea Cornwell – Head of Marketing and Sales - (Appointed 29 November 2021, ceased 15
December 2023)
Andrea was employed under an Executive Service Agreement (ESA). The ESA provided for an
annual salary of $312,500 plus discretionary performance bonuses. The Executive was entitled to
superannuation and leave in accordance with the relevant legislation. The engagement had no fixed
term but was subject to a three-month notice period from either party. The Head of Marketing and
Sales position was made redundant following the execution of the offtake agreement with Shenghe.
Andrea ceased employment with the Company on the 15 December 2023 and she received a statutory
redundancy payment of $36,058 during the period.




                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 53
Ray Anguelov – Head of Technical Services - (Appointed 15 May 2023, ceased 6 September 2024)
Ray was employed under an Executive Service Agreement (ESA). The ESA provided for an annual
salary of CAD $300,000. The engagement had no fixed term but was subject to a three-month notice
period from either party. Ray was issued 500,000 performance rights under the Company’s Employee
Incentive Plan. Ray’s contract was terminated during the year, and he ceased employment with the
Company on 6 September 2024.

Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions with Key Management Personnel during the year (2023:
$nil).



(End of Remuneration Report)




OPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE RIGHTS
At the date of this report Performance Rights on issue to directors and employees are:

Expiry Date                                   Exercise Price              Number of Performance Rights

5 February 2025                                    $Nil                             1,105,000

9 December 2025                                    $Nil                             364,860

23 September 2026                                  $Nil                            1,048,500

15 December 2026                                   $Nil                            3,100,000

9 November 2028                                    $Nil                            4,704,540

30 November 2028                                   $Nil                             2,311,404

28 March 2029                                      $Nil                             50,000

During the year, 7,065,944 performance rights were issued to directors and employees of the
Company. A total of 1,724,294 performance rights were exercised for $nil consideration and a total of
387,500 performance rights lapsed, were cancelled, or expired.
At the date of this report no listed or unlisted options over ordinary shares were on issue.
Performance rights and option holders do not have any right, by virtue of the option or right to
participate in any share issue of the Company or any related body corporate.


INDEMNIFYING OFFICERS OR AUDITOR
During the financial year, the company paid a premium in respect of a contract insuring the Directors
and officers of the Company and related body corporates against a liability incurred as a director,
secretary or executive officer to the extent permitted by the Corporations Act 2001. The contract of
insurance prohibits disclosure of the nature of the liability and the amount of the premium.
The Company has not otherwise, during or since the end of the financial year, except to the extent
permitted by law, indemnified or agreed to indemnify an officer of the Company or of any related
body corporate against a liability incurred as an officer.
To the extent permitted by law, the Company has agreed to indemnify its auditors, Ernst & Young, as
part of the terms of its audit engagement agreement against claims by third parties arising from the
audit (for an unspecified amount). No payment has been made to indemnify Ernst & Young during or
since the financial year.


PROCEEDINGS ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
No person has applied to the court under legislation such as section 237 of the Corporations Act of
Australia for leave to bring proceedings on behalf of the company, or to intervene in any proceedings
to which the company is a party, for the purpose of taking responsibility on behalf of the company for
all or part of those proceedings. No proceedings have been brought or intervened in on behalf of the
consolidated entity with leave of the court under such legislation.
54 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
The Group occasionally receives claims which arise in the normal course of business. Where the
Group is in receipt of such claims it reviews their nature and substance in order to assess the need
for accounting recognition or disclosure. The directors are of the opinion that, based on information
available, there is currently no material exposure to the Group arising from actual or pending claims
at balance date.


AUDITOR’S INDEPENDENCE DECLARATION
The lead auditor’s independence declaration for the year ended 30 June 2024 has been received and
can be found immediately following this Directors’ report.
No amounts have been paid or payable to the auditor for non-audit services. Payments to the
auditors are set out in Note 3 to the Financial Statements.




The Directors’ report is signed in accordance with a resolution of Directors made pursuant to s.298(2)
of the Corporations Act 2001.




On behalf of the Directors,




Dr Russell Scrimshaw (AM)
Executive Chairman
Sydney, NSW
27 September 2024




                                                                            2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 55
AUDITOR’S INDEPENDENCE DECLARATION




56 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT




                               2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 57
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)




58 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)




                                           2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 59
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)




60 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (CONTINUED)




                                           2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 61
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Year Ended 30 June 2024

                                                                          Note         2024           2023
                                                                                         $             $



 Interest income                                                                     572,164         111,705

 R&D rebate                                                                          384,831        586,281

 Total income                                                                        956,995        697,986

 Employee benefits expenses                                                        (4,047,706)     (3,157,157)

 Share based payments expenses                                             17       (1,523,124)    (1,665,584)

 Depreciation expenses                                                    10, 12    (483,060)      (320,209)

 Loss on disposal of investment                                                       (7,175)           -

 Share based payments for government participation                         22           -          (21,189,140)

 Finance costs                                                             12        (27,608)       (15,379)

 Administrative and other costs                                                     (3,050,146)   (3,853,724)

 Technical feasibility costs                                                       (8,685,767)    (3,297,432)

 Exploration and evaluation costs                                                   (1,308,239)         -

 Loss before income tax                                                            (18,175,830)   (32,800,639)

 Income tax expense                                                         6           -               -

 Loss after income tax                                                             (18,175,830)   (32,800,639)

 Other comprehensive income net of tax

 Items that could be transferred to profit or loss in future:

 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                          (2,157,806)    1,900,864

 Total comprehensive loss for the year                                             (20,333,636)   (30,899,775)



 Loss after income tax attributable to:

 Members of the parent                                                             (17,281,399)   (29,386,856)

 Non-controlling interests                                                          (894,431)      (3,413,783)

                                                                                   (18,175,830)   (32,800,639)

 Total comprehensive loss attributable to:

 Members of the parent                                                             (19,439,205)   (27,485,992)

 Non-controlling interests                                                          (894,431)      (3,413,783)

                                                                                   (20,333,636)   (30,899,775)



 Loss per share (in cents)

 Basic and Diluted loss per share                                           4         (6.85)         (15.38)


The statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes




62 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 30 June 2024

                                                                          Note      2024             2023
                                                                                      $               $

 ASSETS

 Current assets

 Cash and cash equivalents                                                 7     7,625,845        25,852,484

 Trade and other receivables                                               8       116,095          251,377

 Prepayments                                                                       101,089         169,957

 Deposits                                                                          25,179             -

 Assets held for sale                                                      11    3,490,457            -

 Total current assets                                                            11,358,665       26,273,818

 Non-current assets

 Other financial assets                                                    9       63,794           63,794

 Property plant and equipment                                              10      852,118         535,479

 Right-of-use asset                                                        12     558,392         3,604,882

 Exploration and evaluation costs                                          13    59,754,156       60,997,405

 Investments                                                               14         -             8,000

 Total non-current assets                                                        61,228,460       65,209,560

 Total assets                                                                    72,587,125       91,483,378



 LIABILITIES

 Current liabilities

 Trade and other payables                                                  15     1,719,219        2,140,418

 Provisions                                                                16      220,519         180,554

 Lease liability – current                                                 12      212,990         145,398

 Total current liabilities                                                        2,152,728       2,466,370

 Non-current liabilities

 Lease liability – non-current                                             12      361,766         133,865

 Total non-current liabilities                                                     361,766         133,865

 Total liabilities                                                               2,514,494        2,600,235

 Net assets                                                                      70,072,631       88,883,143



 EQUITY

 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company

 Contributed equity                                                        18    166,874,257      166,874,257

 Reserves                                                                  17     8,129,329        8,764,011

 Accumulated losses                                                              (121,811,881)   (104,530,482)

 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company                            53,191,705       71,107,786

 Non-controlling interests                                                       16,880,926       17,775,357

 Total Equity                                                                    70,072,631       88,883,143


The statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes




                                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 63
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Year Ended 30 June 2024

                                                                          Note      2024           2023
                                                                                      $             $



 OPERATING ACTIVITIES

 Payments to suppliers and employees                                             (18,423,813)   (9,848,732)

 Finance costs paid                                                               (27,608)        (15,379)

 Interest received                                                                 620,314         53,122

 Government rebates received                                                       384,831        586,281

 Cash used in operating activities                                         7     (17,446,276)   (9,224,708)



 INVESTING ACTIVITIES

 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment                                     (761,299)      (370,338)

 Proceeds from sale of investments                                                   825             -

 Cash used in investing activities                                                (760,474)     (370,338)



 FINANCING ACTIVITIES

 Proceeds from issue of equity shares                                                 -         27,582,500

 Costs of issuing equity shares                                                       -          (1,513,612)

 Payment of lease liabilities                                                     (221,286)      (123,900)

 Cash generated from financing activities                                         (221,286)     25,944,988



 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                                       (18,428,036)   16,349,942

 Balance at the beginning of the year                                            25,852,484      9,479,379

 Effect of foreign currency translation                                            201,397         23,163

 Balance at the end of the year                                            7      7,625,845     25,852,484

The statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes




64 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the Year Ended 30 June 2024

                                                                        Foreign
                                                     Share based       currency                             Non-
                                     Contributed      payment         translation     Accumulated        controlling
                                       Equity          reserve          reserve          losses           interests    Total equity
                                          $               $                $                $                 $              $

 At 30 June 2022                     140,805,369      5,254,532           (56,969)    (75,143,626)           -         70,859,306

 Loss for the year                         -               -                 -        (29,386,856)       (3,413,783)   (32,800,639)

 Other comprehensive income                -               -              1,900,864         -                -          1,900,864

 Total comprehensive income/
                                           -               -          1,900,864       (29,386,856)      (3,413,783)    (30,899,775)
 (loss) for the year

 Equity issued                        27,582,500           -                 -              -                -          27,582,500

 Share based payments for
 government participation                  -               -                 -              -            21,189,140     21,189,140
 (Note 22)

 Equity based payments                     -           1,665,584             -              -                -          1,665,584

 Transaction costs                    (1,513,612)          -                 -              -                -          (1,513,612)

 At 30 June 2023                     166,874,257       6,920,116      1,843,895       (104,530,482)      17,775,357    88,883,143

 Loss for the year                         -               -                 -         (17,281,399)      (894,431)     (18,175,830)

 Other comprehensive income                -               -          (2,157,806)           -                -          (2,157,806)

 Total comprehensive loss for
                                           -               -          (2,157,806)      (17,281,399)      (894,431)     (20,333,636)
 the year

 Equity based payments                     -           1,523,124             -              -                -           1,523,124

 At 30 June 2024                     166,874,257      8,443,240           (313,911)    (121,811,881)     16,880,926     70,072,631


The statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes




                                                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 65
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The financial report of Peak Rare Earths Limited and its subsidiaries (the Group) for the year ended 30
June 2024 was authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 27 September
2024.

Peak Rare Earths Limited is a for profit company limited by shares incorporated in Australia whose
shares are publicly traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). The address of its registered
office and principal place of business is disclosed in the corporate directory in the Annual Report.

The principal activity of the Group during the year was exploration and evaluation of mineral licences.


2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION

a) Basis of Preparation
   The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost. All
   amounts are presented in Australian Dollars unless otherwise noted.

  Statement of compliance
  The financial report is a general purpose financial report which has been prepared in accordance
  with the Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations, and complies
  with other requirements of the law.

  Compliance with Australian Accounting Standards ensures that the financial statements and
  notes of the Group comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the
  International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS).

  Going concern
  The Group incurred a loss after tax of $18,175,830 (2023: $32,800,639) and had operating cash
  outflows of $17,446,276 for the year ended 30 June 2024 (2023: $9,224,708).

  The Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and meet its debts as and when they fall due is
  dependent on its ability to raise additional capital and/or secure project funding.

  As set out in Note 24, on 2 July 2024 Peak signed a non-binding Term Sheet with Shenghe Resources
  Holding Co., Ltd. (Shenghe) covering an investment, funding and development solution for the
  Ngualla Rare Earth Project (Ngualla Project).

  Key elements of the Term Sheet include the following:

      •   Investment structure – Shenghe to acquire a 50% interest in Ngualla Group UK
          Limited (NGUK), which holds an 84% effective interest in the Ngualla Project, through a
          subscription of new shares for ~A$96m;

      •   Fully funded solution – upon completion, Peak will not be required to contribute any
          additional equity funding towards the development of the Ngualla Project. The difference
          between the Ngualla Project’s total development costs and Shenghe’s NGUK investment of
          ~A$96m will be funded via a Shenghe arranged debt facility.

  Whist the definitive binding agreements are yet to be settled, in the directors’ opinion there is
  a reasonable belief that agreements will be executed with Shenghe that will provide the total
  funding to construct and commission the Ngualla Project and to meet other direct costs.

  Peak has $7,625,845 cash at bank at the end of the reporting period, however, the Group’s cashflow
  forecasts indicate that there will be a need in the future to obtain further funding.

  A successful sale of the Teesside site (see Note 11) will also provide funds for working capital.

  In the directors’ opinion, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Group has the ability
  to raise further funding as and when required based on the aforegoing and its past ability to
  raise equity funding. However, in the event that additional funding is not forthcoming to continue
  with the planned development of the Ngualla Project and meet its corporate and administration

66 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
  requirements, there is a material uncertainty whether the Group will be able to progress with its
  current development initiatives and continue as a going concern and therefore in this circumstance
  whether it will realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business and at
  the amounts stated in the consolidated financial statements.

  No adjustments have been made relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded
  asset amounts and the amount and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the
  Group not continue as a going concern.

b) Impact of new standards applied for the first time
   The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for
   the year are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Company’s annual financial
   report for the year ended 30 June 2024, except for the adoption of new and amended accounting
   standards and interpretations effective as of 1 July 2023. The adoption of these new and amended
   accounting standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the consolidated
   entity and no restatement of comparative financial information to reflect the adoption of these
   new standards and interpretations was required.

  The Company has not early adopted any other accounting standard, interpretation or amendment
  that has been issued but is not yet effective.

  Standards issued but not yet effective
  Significant Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations that are issued, but are not yet
  effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements is not expected to be
  material. The Group intends to adopt these new standards and interpretations, if applicable,
  when they become effective. The standards issued and amendments but not yet effective are not
  expected to have a material impact on the Group.

      •   AASB 2020-1 Amendments to AASs – Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
      •   AASB 2022-6 Amendments to AASs – Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
      •   AASB 2014-10 Amendments to AASs – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
          and its Associate or Joint Venture
      •   AASB 2022-5 Amendments to AASs – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
      •   AASB 2023-1 Amendments to AASs – Amendments to AASB 107 and AASB 7 – Disclosures of
          Supplier Finance Arrangements
      •   AASB 2023-5 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Lack of Exchangeability
      •   AASB 18- Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2027).
          AASB 18 aims to improve how entities communicate in their financial statements, with a
          focus on information about financial performance in the statement of profit or loss. AASB
          18 is accompanied by limited amendments to the requirements in AASB 107 Statement of
          Cash Flows. AASB 18 is effective from 1 January 2027 and applied fully retrospective. Entities
          are permitted to apply AASB 18 before that date. AASB 18 replaces AASB 1 - Presentation
          of Financial Statements. The requirements in AASB 1 that are unchanged have been
          transferred to AASB 18 and other standards. There are 3 main areas of changes:

               ॰   requiring additional defined subtotals in the statement of profit or loss, which
                   makes entities' financial performance easier to compare and provides a
                   consistent starting point for investors' analysis;
               ॰   requiring disclosures about management-defined performance measures, which
                   increases discipline over use and transparency about their calculation; and
               ॰   adding new principles for grouping (aggregation and disaggregation) of
                   information, which improves effective communication of information.

c) Basis of consolidation
   The consolidated financial statements of Peak Rare Earths Limited comprise the financial
   statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 30 June 2024. Control is achieved when
   the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and
   has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group
   controls an investee if and only if the Group has:



                                                                               2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 67
     •   Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the
         relevant
     •   activities of the investee)
     •   Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and
     •   The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns

  When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group
  considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee,
  including:

     •   The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee
     •   Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
     •   The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights

  The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate
  that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a
  subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group
  loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or
  disposed of during the year are included in the statement of comprehensive income from the date
  the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.

  All inter-company balances and transactions between entities in the Group, including any
  unrealised profits or losses, have been eliminated on consolidation. Accounting policies of
  subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with those policies
  applied by the parent entity. All controlled entities have a June financial year-end.

  If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets, liabilities, non-
  controlling interest and other components of equity, while any resultant gain or loss is recognised
  in profit or loss. Any investment retained is recognised at fair value. Where controlled entities have
  entered or left the economic entity during the year, their operating results have been included/
  excluded from the date control was obtained or until the date control ceased through an equity
  transaction.

d) Foreign Currency Translation
   The financial statements have been presented in Australian Dollars, which is the parent entities
   presentation currency.

  Foreign currency transactions
  In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in foreign
  currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date
  of the transaction. The Company’s functional currency is Australian dollars. Monetary assets and
  liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the
  reporting date, and gain or loss in exchange rate movements are recognised in profit or loss.

  Translation of foreign operations
  As at the reporting date the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their
  functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the statement of
  comprehensive income, statement cash flows and statement of changes in equity are translated at
  the weighted average exchange rates for the year. The exchange differences arising on translation
  are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated balances are carried forward
  as a separate component of equity.

  Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are
  translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items
  measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date
  when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items
  measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on change in fair value
  of the item (i.e., translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other
  comprehensive income or profit or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive income or
  profit or loss, respectively).



68 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
  On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating
  to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the profit or loss.


e) Other income

  Interest
  Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues on the financial asset carried at amortised
  cost.

  R&D rebate grant
  The Group is treating its receipt of the R&D rebate as a government grant.

  Government grants are recognised as income when there is reasonable assurance that the grant
  will be received and all conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item,
  it is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to
  the costs that it is intended to compensate. When the grant relates to an asset, it is deducted from
  the asset to which it relates, the net value of which is amortised over its expected useful life.

f) Employee benefits
    Employee benefits such as salary and wages are measured at the rate at which the entity expects
    to settle the liability; and recognised during the period over which the employee services are being
    rendered.

  Provision is made for the Group’s liability for employee benefits arising from services rendered by
  employees to balance date. Employee benefits that are expected to be settled within one year
  have been measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liability is settled, plus related
  on-costs. Employee benefits payable later than one year have been measured at the present
  value of the estimated future cash outflows to be made for those benefits.

  Superannuation entitlements
  Contributions are made by the Group to employee superannuation funds and are charged as
  expenses when incurred.


g) Leases
   The Group assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the
   contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange
   for consideration.

  Group as a lessee
  The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-
  term leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises lease liabilities to make lease
  payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.

  i) Right-of-use assets
  The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date
  the underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any
  accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease
  liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial
  direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any
  lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the
  shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.

  The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. The carrying values of right-of-use assets
  are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date, with recoverable amount being estimated
  when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
  Impairment losses, if any, are recognised in the profit or loss.




                                                                                2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 69
  ii) Lease liabilities
  At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the
  present value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include
  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable,
  variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid
  under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase
  option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Group and payments of penalties for terminating
  the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising the option to terminate. Variable lease
  payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless they are
  incurred to produce inventories) in the period in which the event or condition that triggers the
  payment occurs.
  In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate
  at the lease commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily
  determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect
  the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying
  amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a
  change in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a change in an
  index or rate used to determine such lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option
  to purchase the underlying asset.

  iii) Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
  The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of its
  office space. This has been recognised as an expense in Administrative and other costs in the
  consolidated statement of comprehensive income.

h) Income tax
   Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the reporting date between the
   tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for the financial reporting purposes.

  Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except:

      •   Where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset
          or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the
          transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
      •   In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries,
          associates and interests in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary
          differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not
          reverse in the foreseeable future.
  Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward
  of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit
  will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of
  unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except:
      • Where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary differences
         arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a
         business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting
         profit nor taxable profit or loss; and

      •   In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in
          subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised
          only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the
          foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
          differences can be utilised.

  The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
  reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to
  allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.

  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply
  to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws)
  that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.



70 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
   Income taxes relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the
   profit or loss.

i) Other taxes
   Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of GST/VAT except:

   When the GST/VAT incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the
   taxation authority, in which case the GST/VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of
   the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and Receivables and payables, which are
   stated with the amount of GST/VAT included.

   The net amount of GST/VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as
   part of receivables or payables in the statement of financial position.

   The GST/VAT component of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which is
   recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority, is classified as part of operating cash flows.

   Commitments and contingencies are disclosed net of the amount of GST/VAT recoverable from,
   or payable to, the taxation authority.

j) Loss per share

   i) Basic loss per share
   Basic loss per share is determined by dividing the group operating result after income tax
   attributable to members by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
   financial year, adjusted for bonus elements in ordinary shares issued during the year.

   ii) Diluted loss per share
   Diluted loss per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders
   of the parent (after adjusting for interest on the convertible preference shares) by the weighted
   average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average
   number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary
   shares into ordinary shares.

k) Financial Instruments
   A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial
   liability or equity instrument of another entity.

   Financial assets
   Initial recognition and measurement
   Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost,
   fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) and fair value through profit or loss.

   The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset’s
   contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s business model for managing them. With
   the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for
   which the Group has applied the practical expedient, the Group initially measures a financial
   asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss,
   transaction costs. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or
   for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price
   determined under AASB 15.

   In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through
   OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)’ on
   the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed
   at an instrument level.

   The Group’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial
   assets in order to generate cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will
   result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both.




                                                                                  2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 71
  Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established
  by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade
  date, i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.

  Subsequent measurement
  For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories:
     • Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments)
     •   Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses
         (debt instruments)
     •   Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative
         gains and losses upon derecognition (equity instruments)
     •   Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

  Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments)
  This category is the most relevant to the Group. The Group measures financial assets at amortised
  cost if both of the following conditions are met:
     • The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial
          assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
     • The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
          are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

  Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest (EIR)
  method and are subject to impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when
  the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired. The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost
  includes trade receivables.

  Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI (equity instruments)
  Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity
  instruments designated at fair value through OCI when they meet the definition of equity under
  AASB 132 Financial Instruments:

  Presentation and are not held for trading. The classification is determined on an instrument-by-
  instrument basis.

  Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are
  recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the right of payment has been
  established, except when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost
  of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments designated
  at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment. The Group elected to classify
  irrevocably its non-listed equity investments under this category.

  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, financial
  assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets
  mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for
  trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Derivatives,
  including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are
  designated as effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely
  payments of principal and interest are classified and measured at fair value through profit or
  loss, irrespective of the business model. Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be
  classified at amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt instruments
  may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so eliminates,
  or significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch. Financial assets at fair value through profit or
  loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value
  recognised in the statement of profit or loss.




72 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar
financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e., removed from the Group’s consolidated statement
of financial position) when:

   •   The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
   •   The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed
       an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third
       party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred
       substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has neither
       transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has
       transferred control of the asset.

When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and
rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and
rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the
transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises
an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis
that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. Continuing involvement that
takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original
carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be
required to repay.

Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for all debt instruments not
held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual
cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to
receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash
flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are
integral to the contractual terms.

ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECL). For those credit
exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition,
a loss allowance is required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure,
irrespective of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).

Financial liabilities

Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments
in an effective hedge, as appropriate.

All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings
and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group’s financial liabilities include
trade and other payables.

Subsequent measurement
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below.

Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled
or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an
exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition
of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement
of profit or loss.



                                                                                2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 73
  The financial instruments of the Group are (i) cash and cash equivalents, including other financial
  assets; (ii) trade and other receivables; (iii) investments, (iv) trade and other payables.

l) Cash and Cash Equivalents
    Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and in
    hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.

  For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash
  equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.

m) Trade and Other Receivables
  Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised initially at fair value and
  subsequently at amortised cost, less provisions for expected credit losses. For trade receivables,
  the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Group does not track
  changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each
  reporting date. The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit
  loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic
  environment.

n) Property, plant and equipment
   Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in
   value.

  Plant and equipment is depreciated on the straight line basis over their expected useful lives to
  their estimated residual value

  The useful life of the assets have been set at the following levels to determine the depreciation
  rates:

  Plant and equipment: 2 to 5 years

  Impairment
  The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date,
  with recoverable amount being estimated when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
  the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment losses, if any, are recognised in the profit or loss.

  Derecognition and disposal
  An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future
  economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
  of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying
  amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.


o) Exploration and evaluation costs
   The Group expenses all exploration and evaluation expenditure (excluding acquisition costs) as
   incurred, as permitted by AASB 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.

  Exploration and evaluation expenditure in relation to each separate area of interest is recognised
  as an exploration and evaluation asset in the year in which it is incurred where the following
  conditions are satisfied:

  The rights to tenure of the area of interest are current; and at least one of the following conditions
  is also met:

      •   the exploration and evaluation expenditures are expected to be recouped through
          successful development and exploration of the area of interest, or alternatively, by its sale;
          or
      •   exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not at the reporting date
          reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of
          economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in, or in relation
          to, the area of interest are continuing.



74 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
  Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost and include acquisition of rights to
  explore, studies, exploratory drilling and associated activities and an allocation of depreciation and
  amortisation of assets used in exploration and evaluation activities. General and administrative
  costs are only included in the measurement of exploration and evaluation costs where they are
  related directly to operational activities in a particular area of interest.

  Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances
  suggest that the carrying amount of an exploration and evaluation asset may exceed its
  recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of the exploration and evaluation asset (for the
  cash generating unit(s) to which it has been allocated being no larger than the relevant area of
  interest) is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).

  The recoverable amount of exploration and evaluation assets is the higher of fair value less costs of
  disposal and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted
  to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of
  the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

  An impairment exists when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds
  its estimated recoverable amount. The asset or cash-generating unit is then written down to its
  recoverable amount. Any impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.

  Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased
  to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased
  carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
  impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.

  Where a decision has been made to proceed with development in respect of a particular area of
  interest, the relevant exploration and evaluation asset is tested for impairment and the balance is
  then reclassified to production assets.


p) Trade and Other Payables
   Trade payables and other payables are initially recognised at fair value, then carried at amortised
   cost. They represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of
   the financial year that are unpaid and arising when the Group becomes obliged to make future
   payments in respect of the purchase of these goods and services.


q) Provisions
   Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a
   result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits
   will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
   obligation.

  If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the
  expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
  value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

  Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised
  as a finance cost.

r) Share-based payment transactions

  Equity settled transactions:
  The Group provides benefits to employees (including senior executives) of the Group in the form of
  share-based payments, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over
  shares (equity-settled transactions).

  The current plans in place to provide benefits to directors, senior executives and other eligible
  participants as determined by the Board are the Incentive Performance Rights Plan (PRP),
  the Incentive Employee Option Plan (EOP) and the Employee Incentive Plan (EIP) approved by
  shareholders on 15 June 2023.


                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 75
  The cost of these equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair
  value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted. The fair value of Options
  is determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. For Performance Rights with non-
  market conditions, the fair value is measured using the closing share price at grant or shareholder
  approval date. For performance rights with market conditions, the fair value is measured using a
  binomial pricing model.

  In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other
  than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Peak Rare Earths Limited (market conditions) if
  applicable.

  The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in
  equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on
  the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (the vesting period).

  The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until
  vesting date reflects:
     • the extent to which the vesting period has expired and

      •   the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
          No adjustment is made for the likelihood of market performance conditions being met as
          the effect of these conditions is included in the determination of fair value at grant date.
          The profit or loss charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative
          expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.

  No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting
  is only conditional upon a market condition.

  If the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if
  the terms had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification that
  increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial
  to the employee, as measured at the date of modification.

  If an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation,
  and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new
  award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award on the date
  that it is granted, the cancelled and new award are treated as if they were a modification of the
  original award, as described in the previous paragraph.

  The dilutive effect, if any, of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the
  computation of loss per share.


s) Borrowing costs
   Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset
   that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are
   capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in
   which they occur.

  Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the
  borrowing of funds.

t) Non-controlling interest
   The Group elected to measure the non-controlling interests in Mamba Minerals Corporation
   Limited and Mamba Refinery Corporation Limited at its proportionate share of the book values of
   their net assets at each end of the reporting period.

u) Critical accounting judgements and estimates
   In the application of Australian Accounting Standards, management is required to make
   judgments about applying accounting policies and estimates and assumptions about carrying
   values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and
   associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are


76 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
believed to be reasonable under the circumstance, the results of which form the basis of making
the judgments. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision
affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both
current and future periods.

Impairment of exploration and evaluation costs
The future recoverability of exploration and evaluation costs are dependent on a number of
factors, including the level of proved, probable and inferred mineral resources, future technological
changes which could impact the cost of mining, future legal changes (including changes to
environment restoration obligations) and changes to commodity prices.

To the extent that exploration and evaluation costs is determined not to be recoverable in the
future, this impairment will reduce profits and net assets in the period in which this determination
is made.

Share based payment – key management personnel and employees
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions by reference to the fair value of the
equity instruments at the date at which they are granted. The fair value is determined by using
the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the
grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation
model including the expected life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making
assumptions about them.

Share based payment for government participation
Estimating the fair value of the share based payment arising on the transfer of the 16% interest in
the Ngualla project to the Tanzanian Government requires determination of the most appropriate
valuation model significant judgement. As the fair value of the services received provided by the
Tanzanian Government by to the Group under the framework agreement could not be reliably
estimated, the fair value was determined taking into account utilising an indicative measure of the
fair value of the Ngualla project at the date on which the Group and the Tanzanian Government
entered into a framework agreement.




                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 77
3. AUDITORS REMUNERATION

                                                                               2024                          2023
                                                                                 $                            $



Fees to Ernst & Young (Australia):

Fees for auditing the statutory financial report of the parent                84,700                        84,700
covering the group and auditing the statutory financial reports of
any controlled entities

Total fees to Ernst & Young (Australia) (A)                                   84,700                        84,700

Fees to other overseas member firms of Ernst & Young
(Australia)

Fees for auditing the financial report of any controlled entities             51,690                        30,722

Total fees to overseas member firms of Ernst & Young                          51,690                        30,722
(Australia) (B)

Total auditor’s remuneration (A)+(B)                                          136,390                       115,422



4. LOSS PER SHARE

The following reflects the income and share data used in the total operations basic and dilutive loss per share
computations:

                                                                               2024                         2023
                                                                               Cents                        Cents

Basic and Diluted loss per share based on reported losses after
                                                                              (6.85)                        (15.38)
tax as set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income



                                                                               2024                          2023
                                                                               Nos.                          Nos.

Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in
                                                                            265,229,079                   213,201,222
calculating basic loss per share

Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in
                                                                            265,229,079                   213,201,222
calculating diluted loss per share

Anti-dilutive options over ordinary shares and performance
                                                                             13,173,203                    7,952,553
rights excluded from the weighted average number of shares




78 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
5. OPERATING SEGMENTS
Information reported to the chief operating decision makers for the purposes of resource allocation
and assessment of segment performance focuses on the exploration activities of the Group. The
chief operating decision makers include the board of directors. The Group’s reportable segments
under AASB 8 are as follows:

   •   Exploration & Development (E&D) – Group’s exploration and development activities for the
       Ngualla project in Tanzania; and
   •   Unallocated - to manage the corporate affairs of the group.

The segments have applied the same accounting policies as applied to the Group and disclosed in
the notes 1 and 2 to these financial statements.


                                             30 June 2024                                 30 June 2023

                                  E&D        Unallocated       Total           E&D        Unallocated       Total
                                   $              $              $              $              $              $

Interest income                    -           572,164        572,164           -           111,705         111,705

Other income                                   384,831        384,831                       586,281        586,281

Total income                       -           956,995       956,995            -          697,986         697,986

Depreciation and               (324,997)      (158,063)      (483,060)       (187,651)     (132,558)      (320,209)
amortisation

Share based payment                -          (1,523,124)    (1,523,124)   (21,189,140)   (1,665,584)    (22,854,724)
expenses

Borrowing costs                    -           (27,608)      (27,608)           -           (15,379)       (15,379)

Write-off of capitalised           -              -              -              -              -              -
exploration costs

Technical feasibility costs   (8,685,767)         -         (8,685,767)    (3,297,432)         -         (3,297,432)

Exploration & evaluation      (1,308,239)         -         (1,308,239)
costs

Other expenses                     -          (7,105,027)   (7,105,027)         -         (7,010,881)     (7,010,881)

Income Tax                         -              -              -              -              -              -

Segment results               (10,319,003)   (7,856,827)    (18,175,830)   (24,674,223)   (8,126,416)    (32,800,639)

Segment assets                60,509,945      12,077,180    72,587,125      64,821,932    26,661,446      91,483,378

Segment liabilities           (1,458,114)    (1,056,380)    (2,514,494)     (358,268)     (2,241,967)    (2,600,235)

Additions to non-current
assets during the year:

Plant and equipment             495,566         20,683        516,249        346,865        26,893         373,758

Right-of-use assets             516,779           -           516,779           -           86,521          86,521

                               1,012,345       20,683        1,033,028       346,865        113,414        460,279




                                                                                          2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 79
6. INCOME TAX

                                                                                     CONSOLIDATED             CONSOLIDATED
                                                                                        2024                     2023
                                                                                          $                        $
 a.    The components of tax expense comprise:
       Current tax                                                                          -                         -
       Deferred tax                                                                         -                         -
       Income tax expense reported in statement of comprehensive income                     -                         -


       The prima facie tax benefit on loss from ordinary activities before
 b.
       income tax is reconciled to the income tax as follows:
       Loss before income tax                                                          (18,175,830)             (32,800,639)
       Prima facie tax benefit on loss from ordinary activities before income
                                                                                       (5,452,752)               (9,840,192)
       tax at 30.0% (2023:30%)


       Add tax effect of:
       - Revenue losses not recognised                                                  2,070,253                 1,466,717
       - Other non-allowable items                                                      3,753,770                4,913,965
       Less tax effect of:
       - Other deferred tax balances not recognised                                     (255,821)                (438,799)
       - Non-assessable items                                                           (115,450)                     -
       Income tax expense reported in statement of comprehensive income                     -                         -


 c.    Recognised deferred tax assets at 30.0% (2023:30%) (Note 1):
       Deferred tax liabilities
       Prepayment                                                                        (22,951)                     -
       Right of use asset                                                                (36,810)                 (77,268)
       Interest receivable                                                               (3,130)                  (17,575)
       Deferred tax assets
       Carry forward revenue losses                                                       62,891                   94,843
                                                                                            -                         -
 d.    Unrecognised deferred tax assets at 30.0% (2023:30%) (Note 1):
       Carry forward revenue losses                                                     13,377,933               11,754,678
       Carry forward capital losses                                                      355,256                  295,504
       Unrealised FX                                                                     421,933                  543,997
       Capital raising costs                                                             348,095                  400,947
       Provisions and accruals                                                          1,404,235                 1,313,150
       Net right-of-use assets/lease liability                                            40,160                   80,878
       Other                                                                              30,814                   9,350
                                                                                        15,978,426               14,398,504


The tax benefits of the above deferred tax assets will only be obtained if:
   a. the Group derives future assessable income of a nature and of an amount sufficient to enable the benefits to be
        utilised;
   b. the Group continues to comply with the conditions for deductibility imposed by law; and
   c. no changes in income tax legislation adversely affect the company in utilising the benefits.

Note 1 - the corporate tax rate for eligible companies is 25% providing certain turnover thresholds and other criteria are
met. All other companies are taxed at 30%. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are required to be measured at the tax rate
that is expected to apply in the future income year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. The Directors have
determined that the deferred tax balances be measured at the tax rates stated.

Note 2 - Tax Consolidation
For the purpose of income taxation, the Company and its 100% Australian controlled entities have formed a tax consolidated
group effective from 1 July 2012. At 30 June 2024, Peak has adopted the stand-alone taxpayer method for measuring the
current and deferred tax amounts.




80 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
7. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalent                                           2024                    2023
                                                                                        $                      $
 For the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash
 equivalents comprise the following:
 Cash at bank and in hand                                                        2,625,845                  2,352,484
 Short term deposits                                                             5,000,000                 23,500,000
                                                                                 7,625,845                 25,852,484


 Reconciliation of operating loss to operating cash flows
 Loss for the year                                                              (18,175,830)              (32,800,639)
 Adjustments for non-cash items:
 Share based payments expenses                                                    1,523,124                 1,665,584
 Share based payments for government participation                                      -                   21,189,140
 Loss on sale of non-current asset                                                    7,175
 Depreciation expenses                                                            483,060                   320,209
 Foreign exchange loss/(gain)                                                    (1,106,721)                 (9,084)
 Movement in working capital items:
 (Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables                                135,282                   723,034
 (Increase)/Decrease in prepayments                                                68,868                   (89,584)
 Increase/(Decrease) in trade and other payables                                  (421,199)                 (307,555)
 Increase in provisions                                                            39,965                    84,187
                                                                                (17,446,276)              (9,224,708)



8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                                                               2024                         2023
                                                                                 $                           $

Current

GST/VAT receivable                                                            95,579                       180,641

Other receivable                                                              20,516                       70,736

                                                                             116,095                       251,377

Ageing of receivables

Recoverable within 3 months                                                   116,095                      251,377

                                                                             116,095                       251,377

Receivables are non-interest bearing and unsecured.



9. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS

                                                                               2024                         2023
                                                                                 $                           $

Bank Term Deposit                                                             63,794                       63,794

                                                                              63,794                       63,794

A deposit of $63,794 (2023: $63,794), has been secured against a guarantee issued by the bank for an office rental deposit.
This cash balance is not available for withdrawal until the guarantee is withdrawn.




                                                                                               2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 81
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                                                              2024                         2023
                                                                                $                           $

Plant and equipment

At cost                                                                     1,041,970                     826,572

Accumulated depreciation                                                    (189,852)                    (291,093)

                                                                             852,118                      535,479

Movement in net carrying amount:

Balance at the beginning of the year                                         535,479                      225,337

Net Additions                                                                516,249                      373,758

Depreciation for the year                                                   (165,198)                    (63,616)
Depreciation for the year                                                    (34,412)                        -

Balance at the end of the year                                               852,118                      535,479



11. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

                                                                              2024                         2023
                                                                                $                           $

Teesside freehold property

Carrying value                                                              3,490,457                        -

                                                                            3,490,457                        -

Movement in net carrying amount

Balance at the beginning of the year                                            -                            -

Teesside right of use asset carrying value on acquisition of                3,245,407                        -
freehold title

Additional Teesside freehold acquisition cost                                245,050                         -

Balance at the end of the year                                             3.490.457                         -

On 19 March 2024, the Company completed the acquisition of the freehold title over its 19-hectare Teesside site from Homes
England for $245,050 (GBP 125,000). Prior to the acquisition of the freehold rights, the Company held a 250-year long-term
pepper corn lease over the Teesside site, with the Company accounting for the lease payment as a right of use asset which
had a carrying value of $3,425,407 at the date of the freehold acquisition.

Following the acquisition of the freehold title, the Company commenced a sale process for the property. The Directors
believe that it is highly probable that the Company is to divest the property during the 2025 financial year.




82 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
12. LEASES
RIGHT OF USE ASSETS

                                                                               2024                          2023
                                                                                 $                            $

 Movement in net carrying amount:

 Balance at beginning of year                                                3,604,882                     3,774,954

 Additions                                                                    516,779                       86,521

 Transfer to Asset held for sale                                            (3,245,407)                        -

 Depreciation for the year                                                   (317,862)                     (256,593)

 Balance at 30 June 2024                                                      558,392                     3,604,882


LEASE LIABILITIES

                                                                               2024                          2023
                                                                                 $                            $

 Movement in net carrying amount:

 Balance at beginning of year                                                 279,263                       316,643

 Additions                                                                    516,779                       86,521

 Accretion of interest                                                         27,608                       15,379

 Lease payments                                                              (248,894)                     (139,280)

 Balance at 30 June 2024                                                      574,756                       279,263



 Current                                                                      212,990                       145,398

 Non-Current                                                                  361,766                       133,865

 Total                                                                        574,756                       279,263

The Group also has certain contracts which contain a lease with terms of 12 months or less and contracts which contain a
lease of low value. The Group applies the ‘short-term lease’ and ‘lease of low-value assets’ recognition exemptions for these.
Leases that are short-term and low value amounted to $82,712 for the year ended 30 June 2024 (2023: $18,200).


13. EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION EXPENDITURE

                                                                               2024                          2023
                                                                                 $                            $

 Movement in net carrying amount:

 Balance at beginning of year                                               60,997,405                     59,114,040

 Foreign exchange movements                                                 (1,243,249)                    1,883,365

 Balance at 30 June 2024                                                    59,754,156                    60,997,405

 Capitalised areas of interest

 Ngualla Rare Earth Project, Tanzania                                       59,754,156                    60,997,405

                                                                            59,754,156                    60,997,405



14. INVESTMENTS
                                                                               2024                          2023
                                                                                 $                            $

 Investment in listed shares – at fair value through profit or loss              -                           8,000

                                                                                 -                           8,000




                                                                                               2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 83
15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

                                                                                2024                          2023
                                                                                  $                            $

 Current

 Trade and other payables                                                      1,719,219                    2,140,418



Ageing of payables

Payable within 3 months                                                        1,719,219                    2,140,418

                                                                               1,719,219                    2,140,418

Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing, unsecured and are generally payable in 30-120 days.


16. PROVISIONS

                                                                                2024                          2023
                                                                                  $                            $

 Employee benefits - leave entitlements                                        220,519                      180,554



17. RESERVES

                                                                 Share based           Foreign currency
                                                               payment reserve        translation reserve        Total
                                                                      $                        $                   $

 At 30 June 2022                                                  5,254,532                (56,969)            5,197,563

 Share based payments                                              1,665,584                   -               1,665,584

 Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations              -                   1,900,864           1,900,864

 At 30 June 2023                                                   6,920,116               1,843,895           8,764,011

 Share based payments                                              1,523,124                   -                1,523,124

 Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations              -                   (2,157,806)         (2,157,806)

 At 30 June 2024                                                  8,443,240                 (313,911)          8,129,329

Share based payment reserve – the reserve is used to recognise the value of equity benefits provided to employees and
directors as part of their remuneration, and other parties as part of their compensation for supply of goods and services.

Foreign currency translation reserve – the reserve is used to recognise exchange differences arising from translation of
foreign operations to the Australian dollar.




84 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
18. CONTRIBUTED EQUITY

                                                                                 Nos.                        $

Balance at 30 June 2022                                                      207,348,537                140,805,369

Issue of shares for nil consideration on          5-Dec-22                     514,399                        -
exercise of vested performance rights

Issue of shares for nil consideration on          19-Dec-22                     174,494                       -
exercise of vested performance rights

Issue of shares on exercise of listed             17-Feb-23                    275,000                     82,500
PEKOD options @ 30 cents per share

Issue of shares Tranche 1 Capital                 5-May-23                    28,648,186                 14,324,093
Raising @ 50 cents per share

Issue of shares for nil consideration on          15-May-23                    905,036                        -
exercise of vested performance rights

Issue of shares Tranche 2 Capital                 20-Jun-23                   15,215,000                  7,607,500
Raising @ 50 cents per share

Issue of shares Tranche 2 Capital                 21-Jun-23                    11,136,814                5,568,407
Raising @ 50 cents per share

Equity Issue Costs                                                                                       (1,513,612)

Balance at 30 June 2023                                                      264,217,466                166,874,257

Issue of shares for nil consideration on           18-Jul-23                   266,500                        -
exercise of vested performance rights

Issue of shares for nil consideration on          21-Aug-23                     157,500                       -
exercise of vested performance rights

Issue of shares for nil consideration on          29-Dec-23                     125,294                       -
exercise of vested performance rights

Issue of shares for nil consideration on           9-Jan-24                    1,175,000                      -
exercise of vested performance rights

Equity Issue Costs                                                                 -                          -

Balance at 30 June 2024                                                      265,941,760                 166,874,257


Ordinary shares have the right to receive dividends as declared, and in the event of winding up the Company, to participate
in the proceeds from the sale of all surplus assets in proportion to the number of and amounts paid upon on shares held.
Ordinary shares entitle their holder to one vote, either in person or by proxy, at a meeting of the Company.




                                                                                             2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 85
Performance Rights over ordinary shares
At the end of the reporting period, there were 13,173,203 performance rights over unissued shares as
follows:

Options and Performance         Date of expiry/
                                                         Nos              Status        Exercise Price      Expiry Date
Rights over Ordinary Shares    exercise or issue

Balance at 30 June 2023                               8,219,053

Expired/ Lapsed/ Cancelled:

Performance Rights lapsed
                                  15-Jan-24           (212,500)                               -              5-Feb-25
on cessation of employment

Performance Rights lapsed
                                  15-Jan-24           (175,000)                               -              9-Dec-25
on cessation of employment

                                                      (387,500)

Issued:

Performance Rights issued
                                   9-Nov-23           4,104,540         Unvested              -              9-Nov-28
to employees.

Performance Rights issued
                                   9-Nov-23            600,000          Unvested              -              9-Nov-28
to directors.

Performance Rights issued
                                   4-Dec-23           2,311,404         Unvested              -             30-Nov-28
to directors.

Performance Rights issued
                                  28-Mar-23            50,000           Unvested              -             28-Mar-29
to employees.

                                                      7,065,944

Exercised:

Vested Performance Rights          17-Jul-23          (266,500)                               -             23-Sep-26

Vested Performance Rights         21-Aug-23           (157,500)                               -             23-Sep-26

Vested Performance Rights         29-Dec-23           (70,000)                                -             23-Sep-26

Vested Performance Rights         29-Dec-23            (7,500)                                -              5-Feb-25

Vested Performance Rights         29-Dec-23           (47,794)                                -              9-Dec-25

Vested Performance Rights          9-Jan-24           (95,000)                                -             23-Sep-26

Vested Performance Rights          9-Jan-24           (225,000)                               -              5-Feb-25

Vested Performance Rights          9-Jan-24           (280,000)                               -              9-Dec-25

Vested Performance Rights          9-Jan-24           (575,000)                               -             15-Dec-26

                                                     (1,724,294)

Balance at 30 June 2024                               13,173,203


For the year ended 30 June 2024, 4,154,540 employee performance rights and 2,911,404 director performance rights were
issued under the Employee Incentive Plan approved at the General Meeting held on 15 June 2023. During the year a total of
1,724,294 performance rights were exercised and 387,500 expired, lapsed or were cancelled.

At the end of the reporting period, the Company had no options outstanding over unissued shares.



Capital Management Policy
The Group’s policy is to effectively manage its capital structure so that it would continue to operate
as a going concern. The Group manages its contributed equity and reserves as part of its capital. The
Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

As is similar with many other exploration companies, the operational requirements of the Group are
funded through equity and debt raised in various tranches. The overall capital management policy
of the Group remains unchanged and is consistent with prior years.




86 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
19. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
Performance Rights Plan
The Group has an Employee Incentive Plan for the granting of performance rights to eligible
participants which was last approved by Shareholders at a General Meeting of the Company on 15
June 2023.

Performance rights granted during and as at the year ended 30 June 2024:
                                                                                                       Fair value per
                                                                     Number          Exercise Price    performance
                                                                                                            right

Outstanding at 1 July 2023                                          8,219,053

Granted during the year:

Performance Rights issued under the Company’s Incentive             7,065,944                 -            0.39
Performance Rights Plan*

Expired/Lapsed during the year:                                     (387,500)                 -

Exercised during the year                                          (1,724,294)                -

Outstanding at 30 June 2024                                         13,173,203

Exercisable at 30 June 2024                                          488,899                  -



Performance rights granted during and as at the year ended 30 June 2023:
                                                                                                        Fair value per
                                                                     Number           Exercise Price    performance
                                                                                                             right

Outstanding at 1 July 2022                                          3,833,266

Granted during the year:

Performance Rights issued under the Company’s Incentive
                                                                     6,153,400                -              0.47
Performance Rights Plan*

Expired/Lapsed during the year:                                      (173,684)                -

Exercised during the year                                           (1,593,929)               -

Outstanding at 30 June 2023                                         8,219,053

Exercisable at 30 June 2023                                             -                     -

* Vest subject to achievement of performance criteria as determined by the Company’s Board.

The volume weighted exercise price of rights issued during the year was $0.00 (2023: $0.00)

The weighted average remaining contractual life for rights outstanding at 30 June 2024 was 3 years
(2023: 3 years)

The weighted average fair value of rights issued during the year was $0.39 per right (2023:
$0.47)

For performance rights with non-market conditions, the fair value is measured using the closing
share price at grant or shareholder approval date. For performance rights with market conditions,
the fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model. Performance rights were issued during the
year with the follow inputs:




                                                                                          2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 87
 Options and performance rights granted during the year ended 30 June 2024:

 9-Nov-2023 – unvested LTI Performance Rights to vest on achievement of performance criteria
 by 9 November 2028 or the Performance Rights will lapse

 Share price on date of grant                                                                                                           $0.39

 Fair value per performance right – non-market based                                                                                    $0.39



 9-Nov-2023 – unvested LTI Performance Rights to vest on achievement of performance criteria
 by 9 November 2028 or the Performance Rights will lapse

 Share price on date of shareholder approval                                                                                            $0.50

 Fair value per performance right – non-market based                                                                                    $0.50



 4-Dec-2023 – unvested LTI Performance Rights to vest on achievement of performance criteria
 by 30 November 2028 or the Performance Rights will lapse

 Share price on date of shareholder approval                                                                                            $0.39

 Fair value per performance right – non-market based                                                                                    $0.39



 28-Mar-2024 – unvested LTI Performance Rights to vest on achievement of performance criteria
 by 28 March 2029 or the Performance Rights will lapse

 Share price on date of grant                                                                                                           $0.20

 Fair value per performance right – non-market based                                                                                    $0.20


 Options and performance rights granted during the year ended 30 June 2023:

 23-Sep-2022 – unvested LTI Performance Rights to vest on achievement of performance criteria
 by 23 September 2026 or the Performance Rights will lapse

 Share price on date of grant                                                                                                           $0.48

 Fair value per performance right – non-market based                                                                                    $0.48



 15-Dec-2022 – unvested LTI Performance Rights to vest on achievement of performance criteria
 by 15 December 2026 or the Performance Rights will lapse

 WA Share price on date of grant                                                                                                       $0.475

 WA Risk-free interest rate                                                                                                             3.75%

 Dividend yield                                                                                                                           0%

 Expected volatility                                                                                                                    80.7%

 Fair value per performance right – non market based                                                                                   $0.475

 Fair value per performance right – market-based barrier price $0.80                                                                    $0.44

 Fair value per performance right – market-based barrier price $1.50                                                                    $0.36

 (WA weighted average)

The expected volatility reflects the assumption that historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future
trends, which may not necessarily be the case.

The value of options and performance rights granted are expensed over the vesting period. Included in share based payments expense
of $1,523,124 (2023: $1,665,584) is $Nil (2023: -$46,703*) relating to options granted during the year and prior years, and $1,665,584* (2023:
$1,712,287*) relating to performance rights granted during the year and prior years.

* Includes the write back of the share-based payments previously recognised for options and performance rights that lapsed during the
current period.




88 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
20. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS

Lease commitments - Group as a lessee
The maturity analysis of lease payments as at 30 June are as follows:

                                                                           2024                        2023
                                                                             $                          $

Up to 1 year                                                              270,801                     155,166

1 to 5 Years                                                             489,004                      137,549

                                                                         759,805                      292,715



Capital Commitments
At 30 June 2024, the Group has no capital commitments (2023: Nil).

Contingencies
At 30 June 2024, the Group has no contingencies (2023: Nil).
Peak’s 100% owned subsidiary Peak African Minerals has provided Peak with a working capital
loan facility of US$4,209,317 (30 June 2023: US$4,209,317) with consists of a principal component of
US$3,525,317 (30 June 2023: US$3,525,317) accruing interest at 8% per annum plus an initial finance
charge of US$684,000 (30 June 2023: US$684,000) which is not interest bearing. The facility is fully
drawn and is not currently due and payable, however if and when the facility is repaid the accrued
interest and finance charge will be subject to withholding tax at 10% which is estimated to be US$337,127
as at 30 June 2024 (30 June 2023: US$302,891).
The Group occasionally receives claims which arise in the normal course of business. Where the
Group is in receipt of such claims it reviews their nature and substance in order to assess the need
for accounting recognition or disclosure. The directors are of the opinion that, based on information
available, there is currently no material exposure to the Group arising from actual or pending claims
at balance date.

21. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL DISCLOSURE

                                                                           2024                        2023
                                                                             $                          $

Salary and fees – short term benefits                                    2,161,822                   1,987,358

Superannuation                                                            72,881                      103,399

Share based payments^                                                    1,351,723                   1,457,999

Termination payments                                                      36,058                         -

                                                                        3,622,484                    3,548,756

^Includes write back of forfeited unvested non-market based Options and Performance Rights during the year.


The balance outstanding at 30 June 2024 and included in trade and other payables is $15,000 (2023:
$240,000).

Loans to KMP’s
No loans were made to KMPs during the financial year (2023: Nil)

Other transaction and balances with KMPs
There were no other related party transactions with KMPs during the year (2023: $Nil). There were no
other balance outstanding at 30 June 2024 (2023: $Nil).




                                                                                          2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 89
22. GROUP STRUCTURE

Parent and subsidiaries
The parent and the ultimate parent entity of the Group is Peak Rare Earths Limited, a company listed
on the Australian Securities Exchange.
The components of the Group are:

                                                                              Ownership interest

                                                     Incorporation      2024                       2023

Parent

Peak Rare Earths Limited                               Australia        100%                       100%

Controlled entities

PRL Pty Ltd                                            Australia        100%                       100%

Peak Hill Gold Mines Pty Ltd                           Australia        100%                       100%

Redpalm Pty Ltd                                        Australia        100%                       100%

Pan African Exploration Limited                        Australia        100%                       100%

Peak Resources (Tanzania) Limited                      Tanzania         100%                       100%

Peak African Minerals Limited                         Mauritius         100%                       100%

PR Ng Minerals Limited (Indirectly)                    Tanzania         100%                       100%

Peak Technology Metals Limited                      United Kingdom      100%                       100%

Teesside Rare Earth Elements Limited (indirectly)   United Kingdom      100%                       100%

Ngualla Group UK Limited (indirectly)               United Kingdom      100%                       100%

Mamba Minerals Corporation Limited (indirectly)        Tanzania         84%                        84%

Mamba Refinery Corporation Limited (indirectly)        Tanzania         84%                        84%


Incorporation of Mamba Minerals Corporation Limited and Mamba Refinery Corporation Limited
In February 2023, Peak and the Government of Tanzania, incorporated Mamba Minerals Corporation
Limited (MML) and Mamba Refinery Corporation Limited (MRL), with the shareholders of both MML and
MRL being Peak subsidiary, Ngualla Group UK Limited, holding 84% and the Government of Tanzania
holding 16%.
On 17 April 2023, the Framework Agreement was executed between the Tanzanian Government, Peak
Rare Earths Limited, Ngualla Group UK Limited and PR NG Minerals Limited. The 16% interest in MML
and MRL was issued to the Tanzanian Government without any consideration to fulfill the terms of the
Framework Agreement and the Tanzanian legislation. The Tanzanian Government’s 16% interest is an
un-dilutable, free carried interest and the Tanzania Government is not obliged to make any capital
contributions for the development of the Ngualla Project or operations of MML and MRL.
The Framework Agreement sets out the basis of the Government of Tanzania’s agreement for the
licencing, development, economic benefit sharing and the formation of entities held by Peak and the
Government of Tanzania with respect to the development and operation of the Ngualla Project. The
Group was obliged to transfer all intellectual property, studies, reports, physical assets and any other
assets acquired under the arrangement without any consideration to MML in accordance with the
terms of the Framework Agreement. On 25 April 2023 the Special Mining Licence was issued to MML
for the development and operations of the Ngualla Project.
For the year ended 30 June 2023, the Group recognised a share based payment for government
participation amounting to $21,189,140. Estimating the fair value of the share based payment arising
on the issuance of the 16% interest in the Ngualla Project to the Tanzanian Government required
determination of an appropriate valuation model under accounting standard AASB 2. The fair value
was determined utilising the most appropriate measure available, being 16% of the Group’s adjusted
market capitalisation of $132,432,122 at the date on which the Framework Agreement was executed.




90 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
The summarised financial information of MML and MRL are as follows:

                                                                                         2024                              2023
                                                                                           $                                $

    Loss for the year                                                                (5,590,195)                       (21,336,143)

    Attributable to non-controlling interests                                         (894,431)                        (3,413,783)

    Total comprehensive loss for the year                                            (5,590,195)                       (21,336,143)

    Attributable to non-controlling interests                                         (894,431)                        (3,413,783)

    Assets

    Current assets                                                                      417,361                              -

    Non-current assets1                                                              106,539,941                        111,095,981

    Total Assets                                                                     106,957,302                       111,095,981

    Liabilities

    Current liabilities                                                                1,083,063                             -

    Non-current liabilities                                                            368,451                               -

    Total Liabilities                                                                  1,451,514                             -

    Total Equity                                                                     105,505,788                        111,095,981

    Attributable to:

    Equity holders of parent                                                          88,624,862                       93,320,624

    Non-controlling interest                                                          16,880,926                        17,775,357
1
 The total non-current assets of the Mamba entities on a standalone basis includes an uplift in the Exploration and Evaluation assets due to
the fair value accounting for the initial Share Based Payment granted to Government of Tanzania.



23. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The financial instruments of the Group are (i) cash and cash equivalents, including other financial
assets; (ii) trade and other receivables; (iii) investments, (iv) trade and other payables.
The Group’s principal financial instruments are cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose of
these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. It is, and has been throughout the
period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The financial instruments expose the group to certain risks. The nature and extent of such risks, and
the management's risk management strategy are noted below.

                                                                                         2024                              2023
                                                                                           $                                $

    Cash and cash equivalents                                                         7,625,845                        25,852,484

    Trade and other receivables                                                         116,095                          251,377

    Other financial assets                                                              63,794                            63,794

    Investments                                                                            -                              8,000

    Trade and other payables                                                          (1,719,219)                       (2,140,418)

    The carrying amount of financial instruments closely approximate their fair value on account of the short maturity.




                                                                                                            2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 91
Credit Risk
The Group's credit risks arise from potential default of trade and other receivables, cash and cash
equivalents and other financial assets. The maximum credit exposure is limited to the carrying
amount of trade and other receivables of $116,095 at 30 June 2024 (2023: $251,377).
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial instruments is mitigated by holding balances
with banks with a high credit rating. The maximum exposure for cash and cash equivalents is shown
above.
There were no significant concentrations of credit risks.

Liquidity risk
The Group's liquidity risks arise from potential inability of the Group to meet its financial obligations as
and when they fall due, generally due to shortage of cleared funds. The Group is exposed to liquidity
risk on account of trade and other payables. The Group manages its liquidity risk through continuously
monitoring the cleared funds position; and by utilising short term cash budgets.
The contractual maturity analysis of the Group's financial instruments are noted below:

                                               2024                                          2023

                                Up to 3                                      Up to 3
                                months       > 3 months      Total           months       > 3 months           Total
                                  $               $            $               $               $                 $

Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables       (1,719,219)       -         (1,719,219)      (2,140,418)       -            (2,140,418)

Lease Liabilities              (60,884)       (513,872)   (574,756)          (36,040)     (243,223)        (279,263)

Total financial liabilities   (1,780,103)    (513,872)    (2,293,975)       (2,176,458)   (243,223)        (2,419,681)

Financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents
                               7,625,845       63,794     7,689,639         25,852,484      63,794         25,916,278
and other financial assets

Investments                        -             -             -                   -        8,000              8,000

Trade and other receivables     116,095          -          116,095           251,377         -                251,377

Total financial assets         7,741,940       63,794     7,805,734         26,103,861      71,794         26,175,655


Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that fair values and cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments will be
affected by changes in the market interest rates.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are impacted by interest rate risks. Trade and other receivables
and payables have short maturities and are non-interest bearing. Management believes that the risk
of interest rate movement would not have a material impact of the Group’s operations.
Management does not closely monitor the interest rates offered on cash and cash equivalents as the
Group’s primary objective is exploration of resources rather than earning interest income. The cash
balances are invested at the prevailing short term market interest rates with credit worthy financial
institutions.
The sensitivity of the interest-bearing financial instruments to a 1% change in market interest rate are
noted below:

                                                                           2024                         2023
                                                                             $                           $

Cash and cash equivalents                                                7,625,845                   25,852,484

Impact on profit and equity: +1% movement                                 76,258                       258,525

Impact on profit and equity: -1% movement                                (76,258)                     (258,525)




92 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s expenditure obligations in Tanzania are primarily in US dollars as a result the Group is
exposed to fluctuations in the US dollar to Australian currency. The Group will transfer cash and cash
equivalents into foreign currency to meet short term expenditure obligations. These exposures are
not subject to a hedging programme. The Board and management from time to time having regard
to likely forward commitments review this policy.

Commodity price risk
The Group’s exposure to commodity price risk is minimal at this stage of the operation.

Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities during the year ended 30 June 2024:
                                                                     2024

                                                       Foreign exchange
                           1-Jul-23       Cash flows      movement        Other Movement   30-Jun-24
                              $               $                $                 $             $

Financial liabilities

Lease liabilities          279,263        (248,894)           -              544,387        574,756

Total liabilities from
                           279,263        (248,894)           -              544,387        574,756
financing activities



Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities during the year ended 30 June 2023:
                                                                     2023

                                                       Foreign exchange
                           1-Jul-22       Cash flows      movement        Other Movement   30-Jun-23
                              $               $                $                 $             $

Financial liabilities

Lease liabilities          316,643         (138,974)          -               101,594       279,263

Total liabilities from
                           316,643        (138,974)           -              101,594        279,263
financing activities



24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On 24 July 2024, Peak signed a non-binding Term Sheet with Shenghe Resources Holding Co., Ltd.
(Shenghe) covering an investment, funding and development solution for the Ngualla Rare Earth
Project (Ngualla Project). Shenghe holds an approximate 19.9% interest in Peak and appointed a Non-
Executive Director to the Company’s Board in December 2022.
Key elements of the agreed Term Sheet between Peak and Shenghe include the following:
   •    Investment structure – Shenghe to acquire a 50% interest in Ngualla Group UK Limited
        (NGUK), which holds an 84% effective interest in the Ngualla Project, through a subscription of
        new shares for ~A$96m;
   •    Fully funded solution – upon completion, Peak will not be required to contribute any
        additional equity funding towards the development of the Ngualla Project. The difference
        between the Ngualla Project’s total development costs and Shenghe’s NGUK investment
        of ~A$96m will be funded via a Shenghe arranged debt facility, which is expected to be on
        terms more favourable than a typical international project financing facility;
   •    Term – in the absence of execution of transaction documentation the Term Sheet to expire
        on 31 March 2025 unless mutually extended;
   •    Various other commercial aspects around, engineering delivery solution, profit sharing and
        incentivisation payments and subsidiary Board representation are also considered.

Other than the matters referred to above, there were no other events that have a material impact on
the financial statements or operations of the Group and Company.




                                                                                2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 93
25. PARENT ENTITY DISCLOSURE
The following details information related to the parent entity, Peak Rare Earths Limited. The information
presented here has been prepared using consistent accounting policies as presented in Note 2.

                                                                  2024                     2023
                                                                    $                       $

Financial position

Current assets                                                 10,862,062               25,940,650

Non-current assets                                             56,902,574               65,141,263

Total assets                                                   67,764,636               91,081,913



Current liabilities                                             945,199                  1,927,543

Non-current liabilities                                        10,394,074               10,043,456

Total liabilities                                              11,339,273               11,970,999



Net assets                                                     56,425,363               79,110,914



Equity

Contributed equity                                             166,874,256              166,874,257

Share based payment reserve                                    8,506,724                6,983,600

Accumulated losses                                            (118,955,617)            (94,746,943)

Total equity                                                   55,425,273               79,110,914



Financial performance

Loss for the year                                             (24,208,674)             (10,707,606)

Other comprehensive income                                         -                        -

Total comprehensive loss for the year                         (24,208,674)             (10,707,606)


Peak Rare Earths Limited had no commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment or
contingent liabilities at 30 June 2024 (2023: $Nil).




94 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
CONSOLIDATED ENTITY DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
This consolidated entity disclosure statement has been prepared in accordance with the Corporations
Act 2001 and includes information for each entity that was part of the consolidated entity as at the
end of the financial year in accordance with AASB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements:

As at 30 June 2024

Entity Name                                           Entity Type       Country of    Beneficial   Country of tax
                                                                      incorporation   interest %    residence

Parent

Peak Rare Earths Limited                            Body Corporate      Australia                    Australia

Controlled entities

PRL Pty Ltd                                         Body Corporate      Australia       100%         Australia

Peak Hill Gold Mines Pty Ltd                        Body Corporate      Australia       100%         Australia

Redpalm Pty Ltd                                     Body Corporate      Australia       100%         Australia

Pan African Exploration Limited                     Body Corporate      Australia       100%         Australia

Peak Resources (Tanzania) Limited                   Body Corporate      Tanzania        100%         Australia

Peak African Minerals Limited                       Body Corporate      Mauritius       100%         Australia

PR Ng Minerals Limited (Indirectly)                 Body Corporate      Tanzania        100%         Australia

Peak Technology Metals Limited                      Body Corporate   United Kingdom     100%         Australia

Teesside Rare Earth Elements Limited (indirectly)   Body Corporate   United Kingdom     100%         Australia

Ngualla Group UK Limited (indirectly)               Body Corporate   United Kingdom     100%         Australia

Mamba Minerals Corporation Limited (indirectly)     Body Corporate      Tanzania        84%          Tanzania

Mamba Refinery Corporation Limited (indirectly)     Body Corporate      Tanzania        84%          Tanzania




                                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 95
DIRECTOR’S DECLARATION
In accordance with a resolution of the directors of Peak Rare Earths Limited, I state that:
In the opinion of the Directors

   a. Subject to the matters set out in Note 2(a) to the Financial Statements there are reasonable
      grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become
      due and payable;
   b. the attached financial statements are in compliance with International Financial Reporting
      Standards, as stated in note 2 to the financial statements;
   c. the attached financial statements and notes thereto for the financial year ended 30 June 2024
      are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and Corporations Regulation 2001, including
      compliance with accounting standards and giving a true and fair view of the financial position
      as at 30 June 202 and performance of the Group for the year ended on that date;
   d. the consolidated entity disclosure statement required by section 295(3A) of the Corporations
      Act is true and correct;
   e. The Directors have been given the declarations required by section 295A of the Corporations
      Act 2001


Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors made pursuant to s295(5) of the Corporations
Act 2001.


On behalf of the Directors




Dr Russell Scrimshaw (AM)
Executive Chairman
Sydney, NSW
27 September 2024




96 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
07.                  ASX ADDITIONAL
                     INFORMATION
The following additional information is required by the Australian Securities Exchange Ltd and was
applicable as at 8 October 2024.

DISTRIBUTION OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                                                                                  Unvested Performance Rights
                                      Ordinary Shares
                                                                                       exercisable at $Nil
Holding Ranges
                                                           % Issued Share
                      No of Holders     Total Units                               No of Holders        % IC
                                                               Capital
1 to 1,000                 889            458,686                 0.17                    -
1,001 to 5,000             1,414         3,734,090                1.40                    -
5,001 to 10,000            578           4,548,728                 1.71                   -
10,001 to 100,000          1,108         39,386,645               14.78                5               2.8
100,001 and over           278           218,302,510              81.94                13              97.2
Totals                     4,267        266,430,659            100.00                  18            100.00


UNMARKETABLE PARCELS
There were 1,716 holders with less than a marketable parcel of fully paid shares representing 1,893,555
shares.

RESTRICTED SECURITIES
As at 8 October 2024, there were no restricted securities.
Unquoted equity securities as at 8 October 2024

Class of Equity Security                               Expiry Date            Number          Number of Security
                                                                                                  Holders
Unvested Performance Rights exercisable at $Nil         Various              11,709,304               18


There were no persons holding greater than 20% of a class of unquoted securities not issued under
an employee incentive scheme.


SUBSTANTIAL HOLDERS
The Substantial shareholders in the Company according to Form 604 notifications to ASX are:

Name of Holder                                                    Number held                     % Held
Shenghe Resources (Singapore) Pte Ltd (21 June 2023)                 52,399,173                   19.80%


VOTING RIGHTS
In accordance with the Company’s constitution, on a show of hands every member present in person
or by proxy or attorney or duly authorised representative has one vote. On a poll every member
present in person or by proxy or attorney or duly authorised representative has one vote for every
fully paid ordinary share held.


                                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 97
ON MARKET BUY-BACK
The Company does not have any current on-market buy-back plans.


EQUITY SECURITY HOLDERS
The names of the twenty largest security holders of quoted equity securities as at 8 October 2024 are
listed below:

Rank    Name                                                         No. Shares            %IC
1       SHENGHE RESOURCES (SINGAPORE) PTE LTD                         52,899,173          19.85
2       HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED - A/C 2             15,338,586           5.76
3       HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED                     11,059,043           4.15
4       BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD                                  6,120,328            2.30
5       NETWEALTH INVESTMENTS LIMITED                                 5,588,737            2.10
6       CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED                                 5,639,086            2.12
7       BUTTONWOOD NOMINEES PTY LTD                                   4,529,953            1.70
8       SUTTON NOMINEES PTY LTD                                       4,308,745            1.62
9       SAMBOLD PTY LTD                                               3,740,000            1.40
10      AG                                                            3,706,042            1.39
11      BNP PARIBAS NOMS PTY LTD                                       3,128,731           1.17
12      WISTRENGTH CAPITAL PTY LTD                                    2,182,814            0.82
13      ONE MANAGED INVESTMENT FUNDS LIMITED                          2,072,891            0.78
14      BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD                                  2,047,565            0.77
15      PINNACLE SUPERANNUATION PTY LIMITED                           2,000,000            0.75
15      LONERGAN FOUNDATION PTY LTD                                   2,000,000            0.75
15      BUSHELL NOMINEES PTY LTD                                      2,000,000            0.75
15      ASHABIA PTY LTD                                               2,000,000            0.75
15      PASAGEAN PTY LIMITED                                          2,000,000            0.75
16      MR RICHARD SMITH                                              1,923,334            0.72
17      CHARBELLU PTY LIMITED                                         1,900,000            0.71
18      BAROMODA HOLDINGS PTY LTD                                     1,760,093            0.66
19      MEURER INVESTMENTS PTY LTD                                    1,584,221            0.59
20      CRX SECURITIES PTY LIMITED                                    1,543,750            0.58
                                                            Total    141,073,092          52.95




98 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
08.                    TENEMENT SCHEDULE,
                       RESERVE & RESOURCES
 Project                  Tenement            %            Status                  Arrangement/ Comment
                                                                        Held by Tanzanian subsidiary company,
                                                                        Mamba Minerals Corporation Limited, which
                            SML                                         is owned 84% by Peak (via 100% UK subsidiary,
 Ngualla                                      84          Granted
                          693/2023                                      Ngualla Group UK Limited) and 16% by the
                                                                        Government of Tanzania (via the Treasury
                                                                        Registrar)

ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES – ANNUAL REVIEW
The Company reviews and reports its Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources at times which align
with the strategic objectives of the Company. The tables below state the Ore Reserve and Mineral
Resources as at 30 June 2024 which are unchanged from 30 June 2023.


Table 1: Classification of Ore Reserve estimates for the Weathered Bastnaesite Zone at Ngualla.

                                         Ore Reserve as at 30 June 2024 (unchanged since October 2022)
JORC Category
                                  Ore Tonnes (Millions)                   REO %                   Contained REO Tonnes
Proved                                      17.0                           4.78                         813,000
Probable                                     1.5                           5.10                          74,000
Total                                       18.5                           4.80                         887,000




                                                                                              2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 99
See Table 2 for the breakdown of individual REO’s. Reported according to the JORC 2012 Code and Guidelines.

Table 2: Relative components of individual rare earth oxides (including yttrium) as a percentage of total REO for the Ngualla
Project Ore Reserve estimate (refer to Table 1)

                                               REO Grade %                                              % of Total REO
 Rare Earth Oxides
                               Proved             Probable                 All          Proved            Probable               All

 Lanthanum                      1.318               1.418             1.326              27.59               27.80              27.61

 Cerium                         2.305              2.456               2.317             48.25               48.15              48.24

 Praseodymium                   0.228              0.243              0.229               4.77               4.77               4.77

 Neodymium                      0.788              0.838              0.792               16.49              16.43              16.49

 Samarium                       0.077              0.082              0.077                1.61               1.61               1.61

 Europium                       0.014              0.015              0.014               0.30               0.28               0.30

 Gadolinium                     0.029              0.031              0.030               0.62               0.60               0.62

 Terbium                        0.002              0.002              0.002               0.05               0.05               0.05

 Dysprosium                     0.004              0.004              0.004               0.07               0.07               0.07

 Holmium                        0.000              0.000              0.000               0.01               0.01                0.01

 Erbium                         0.001              0.002              0.002               0.03               0.03               0.03

 Thulium                        0.000              0.000              0.000               0.00               0.00               0.00

 Ytterbium                      0.001              0.001              0.001               0.01               0.01                0.01

 Lutetium                       0.000              0.000              0.000               0.00               0.00               0.00

 Yttrium                        0.010              0.010              0.010               0.20               0.19               0.20

 Total REO                      4.78                5.10               4.80              100.00             100.00             100.00
Values may not balance due to rounding to 0.01%


Ore Reserves – Competent Person’s Statement
The information in this report that relates to Ore Reserve estimates and estimated mine operating
costs is based on information compiled by Mr Ryan Locke, a Competent Person who is a Member of
the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy. Mr Locke is a Principal Consultant and is employed
by Orelogy Mine Consulting Pty Ltd, an independent consultant to Peak Rare Earths Limited. Mr Locke
has sufficient experience that is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under
consideration and to the activity being undertaken to qualify as a Competent Person as defined
in the 2012 Edition of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources
and Ore Reserves. Ryan Locke consents to the inclusion in the report of the maters based on his
information in the form and context in which it appears.

Table 3: Classification of All Mineral Resources for the Ngualla Rare Earth Project at a 1.0% REO cut-off grade.

                                                             Mineral Resource as at 30 June 2024 (unchanged from October 2022)
                     Lower Cut-Off
                                        JORC Category          Ore Tonnes                            Contained REO
                        Grade                                                         REO %                                   BASO₄ %
                                                                (Millions)                              Tonnes

                                           Measured                86.1                 2.61             2,250,000              20.2
 Ngualla all                                Indicated              112.6                1.81            2,040,000               13.8
 Mineral                1.0% REO
 Resources                                   Inferred              15.7                 2.15             340,000                17.6

                                              Total               214.4                2.15             4,620,000               16.6

*REO (%) includes all the lanthanide elements plus yttrium oxide. See Tables 5 for breakdown of individual REO’s. Figures above may not sum
dueto rounding. The number of significant figures does not impy an added level of precision.


The Weathered Bastnaesite Zone Mineral Resource estimate summarised below is a subset and
contained within the All Mineral Resources reported in Table 3 above.




100 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
Table 4: Classification of All Mineral Resources for the Weathered Bastnaesite Zone mineralisation at a 1.0% and 3% REO cut-
off grades.

                                                                                    Mineral Resource as at October 2022
                       Lower Cut-Off
                                          JORC Category            Ore Tonnes                              Contained REO
                          Grade                                                            REO %                                 BASO₄ %
                                                                    (Millions)                                Tonnes

                                             Measured                 18.9                  4.75              900,000               37.8

                                             Indicated                 1.9                  4.85              90,000                38.3
                         1.0% REO
                                              Inferred                 0.5                  4.43              20,000                31.5
 Ngualla all                                     Total                21.3                  4.75             1,010,000              37.7
 Mineral
 Resources                                   Measured                  1.7                  5.14              90,000                39.3

                                             Indicated                 0.4                  4.84              20,000                35.4
                         3.0% REO
                                              Inferred                19.9                  4.90              980,000               38.6

                                                 Total                19.9                  4.90             980,000                38.6
*REO (%) includes all the lanthanide elements plus yttrium oxide. See Table 5 for breakdown of individual REO’s. The Weathered Bastnaesite
ZoneMineral Resource is contained within an is a subset of the Total All Ngualla Project Mineral Resource at a 1% REO cut-off grade in Table 3
above. Figures above may not sum due to rounding. The number of significant figures does not impy an added level of precision.

Table 5: Relative components of individual rare earth element oxides (including yttrium) as a percentage of total REO for
2018 Total Ngualla +1% REO, Weathered Bastnaesite Zone +1% REO and Weathered Bastnaesite Zone +3% REO and Mineral
Resources summarised in Tables 3 and 4.

                                       Ngualla 2022 Total Mineral             Ngualla 2022 Weathered            Ngualla 2022 Weathered
                                               Resource                      Bastnaesite Zone Resource         Bastnaesite Zone Resource

               Oxide                              1% REO                                 1% REO                            3% REO

                                       REO Grade         % of Total          REO Grade        % of Total       REO Grade         % of Total
                                          (%)               REO                 (%)              REO              (%)               REO

 Lanthanum               La₂O3           0.587             27.25                 1.310             27.58          1.353             27.63

 Cerium                  CeO2            1.039             48.23               2.293               48.27          2.364             48.27

 Praseodymium            Pr6O11          0.104              4.81               0.227               4.77           0.234              4.77

 Neodymium               Nd₂O3           0.348              16.2               0.784               16.5           0.806              16.5

 Samarium               Sm₂O3            0.036              1.66               0.076               1.60           0.078              1.60

 Europium                Eu₂O3           0.007              0.34               0.014               0.29           0.014              0.29

 Gadolinium              Gd2O3           0.016              0.75               0.029               0.61           0.030              0.61

 Terbium                 Tb4O7           0.001              0.07               0.002               0.05           0.002              0.05

 Dysprosium              Dy₂O3           0.003              0.16               0.004               0.07           0.004              0.08

 Holmium                 Ho₂O3           0.000              0.02               0.000               0.01           0.000              0.01

 Erbium                  Er₂O3           0.001              0.06               0.002               0.03           0.002              0.03

 Thulium                Tm2O3            0.000              0.00               0.000               0.00           0.000              0.00

 Ytterbium               Yb2O3           0.001              0.04               0.001               0.01           0.001              0.01

 Lutetium                Lu2O3           0.000              0.00               0.000               0.00           0.000              0.00

 Yttrium                 Y2O3            0.010              0.47               0.010               0.20           0.010              0.20

 Total                                    2.15              100                  4.75              100            4.90               100
*Figures may not sum due to rounding.


Mineral Resource estimates – Competent Person’s Statement
The information in this report that relates to the Mineral Resource estimates is based on work
conducted by Rod Brown of SRK Consulting (Australasia) Pty Ltd, and the work conducted by Peak
Rare Earths Limited, which SRK has reviewed. Rod Brown takes responsibility for the Mineral Resource
estimate. Rod Brown is a Member of The Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and has sufficient
experience that is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration, and
to the activities undertaken, to qualify as Competent Person in terms of the Australasian Code for the
Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (JORC Code, 2012 edition). Rod
Brown consents to the inclusion of such information in this report in the form and context in which it
appears.

                                                                                                             2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 101
MINERAL RESOURCES AND ORE RESERVES GOVERNANCE
The Company’s Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates are completed by external consultants
who qualify as Competent Persons as defined by the 2012 Edition of the Australasian Code for
Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves. Suitably qualified members of
the PDI Board and management team provide input where required and review the estimates prior
to release.



COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Information in this report references the Company’s ASX announcements dated 24 October 2022
“Completion of Ngualla Project BFS Update”, 30 November 2023 “Completion of FEED Study”, and
drilling and exploration results referenced by date announced on ASX which are also available to
view on www.peakrareearths.com/announcements/. The Company confirms that at this time it is not
aware of any new information or data that materially affects the information included in the relevant
announcements and that all material assumptions and technical parameters underpinning the
estimates in the relevant announcement continue to apply and have not materially changed, save
that (i) the 30 November 2023 announcement “Completion of FEED Study” provides new information
and updates to estimates in the 24 October 2022 “Completion of the Ngualla Project BFS Update”
and (ii) the change to the rare earths price assumptions as set out in the December 2023 Quarterly
Activities Report and Review of Operations Section of the December 2023 Half-Year Financial Report.




102 | PEAK RARE EARTHS
09.               CORPORATE DIRECTORY
PEAK RARE EARTHS LIMITED
ABN: 72 112 546 700



DIRECTORS
Russell Scrimshaw		         Executive Chairman
Abdullah Mwinyi		           Non-Executive Director
Shasha Lu			                Non-Executive Director
Ian Chambers			             Non-Executive Director
Nick Bowen			               Non-Executive Director
Hannah Badenach		           Non-Executive Director
Bardin Davis			             Chief Executive Officer
Philip Rundell			           Company Secretary

REGISTERED OFFICE                                       AUDITORS
Level 9                                                 Ernst and Young
190 St Georges Terrace                                  11 Mounts Bay Road
Perth WA 6000
                                                        Perth WA 6000


SOLICITORS
Corrs Chambers Westgarth (Australia)                    SHARE REGISTRY
Level 6
                                                        Link Market Services Limited
Brookfield Place Tower 2
                                                        Level 12, 680 George Street
123 St Georges Terrace
                                                        Sydney NSW 2000
Perth WA 6000

Clyde & Co (Tanzania)
11th Floor, Jubilee Towers
                                                        CONTACT DETAILS
Ohio Street ,Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
                                                        Website: www.peakrareearths.com
Bowmans Tanzania                                        Email: info@peakrareearths.com
2nd Floor, The Luminary                                 Telephone:   (08) 9200 5360
Cnr Haile Selassie and Chole Roads                      Facsimile:   (08) 9226 3831
Masaki, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania


                                                        STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
                                                        Australian Securities Exchange Limited
                                                        Home Exchange: Perth, Western Australia
                                                        Code: PEK

Corporate Governance Statement
The Company has adopted the recommendations of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s
Principles and Recommendations (Third Edition) in regard to the Corporate Governance Disclosures
and provides disclosure of the Company’s Corporate Governance Statement on the Company’s
website here.

                                                                       2024 ANNUAL REPORT | 103