Rare earth elements (REEs)*     Titanium (Ti)

 Cobalt (Co) *                Magnesite               Rhenium (Re)                    Tungsten (W)*

 Gallium (Ga)*                Magnesium (Mg)*         Rhodium (Rh)                    Vanadium (V)*

 Germanium (Ge)               Manganese (Mn)          Ruthenium (Ru)                  Zinc (Zn)

 Hafnium (Hf)                 Natural graphite (C)*   Silicon (Si)*

 Helium (He)                  Nickel (Ni)             Sodium (Na) (compounds)

* Appeared on the UK critical minerals list 2021.



The 2024 UK critical minerals list aligns with similar worldwide assessments, such as that
produced by the European Union in 2023, highlighting the global nature of commodity markets
and competition to access raw materials, whilst reflecting the UK’s specific geopolitical and
economic environment.
The report makes a range of recommendations, including the need for further research and
capacity building in the midstream and manufacturing sectors, especially recycling, continuing
to build international trade partnerships to reduce the risks and impacts of trade barriers, deep
dive studies on important commodities, such as copper, iron, tungsten and tantalum, and
technologies (information and computing technologies, especially quantum computing and
artificial intelligence), continuing to invest in the pre-competitive geoscience data to underpin the
potential for domestic production (such as geophysical surveys), continuing efforts to enhance
the methodologies used for criticality assessment, and finally continuing support to maintain UK
expertise in critical minerals, supply chains and circular economy opportunities.

It is important to note, as this report demonstrates, that many non-critical raw materials will
remain important for a variety of technologies and societal goals (e.g. digital transformation,
evolution of the electrical grid and other infrastructure), meaning that they will require different
policy approaches than those pursued for critical minerals. All materials below the criticality
threshold for this assessment should be maintained as a watch list, ensuring that any changes
can be identified quickly and actioned accordingly.

Global commodity markets are highly dynamic in nature, reflecting continuous technological
improvements, market expansion and global competition in an increasingly divided geopolitical
landscape. Regular reassessment is advised to track changes in criticality status and monitor
the impact of risk management policies. A comprehensive update is recommended for 2027,
incorporating forward-looking analyses to anticipate the material demands for key UK industrial
sectors in response to the evolving technological and geopolitical circumstances.

Addressing the risks identified through CAs requires a balanced approach, combining:
   • primary supply
   • secondary (recycling) capacity
   • planning a strong industrial strategy
   • maintaining the expertise to analyse and assess the numerous material supply chains,
      technologies and their links to the UK economy

This will require ongoing support for criticality-related research, associated data needs (mining
and refining; trade data; economic data; material flows; etc.) and increasing the extent of
international collaboration. This report provides the foundation for future such planning and
policy in the critical minerals field, especially with regards to the emerging industrial strategy for
the UK.
1      Introduction
Critical minerals are those that are important to modern technology and societal needs but are
at risk of supply disruption, leaving the UK economically vulnerable. The process of determining
which materials are critical and those that are not is called a ‘criticality assessment’ (CA).

The purpose of a CA is to assist in the development of appropriate mitigation by identifying
which raw materials are of the most strategic importance to a country’s economy and national
security, and which are vulnerable to supply disruption due to their being mined or refined in a
small number of countries.

This report describes the process and results of the UK 2024 Criticality Assessment undertaken
by the British Geological Survey (BGS)-hosted Critical Minerals Intelligence Centre (CMIC) as
commissioned by the Department for Business and Trade (DBT). In this study, we use ‘raw
material’ to encompass all material forms (metals; minerals; gases) and ‘critical minerals’ for
those identified by this assessment.

The identification of critical minerals is essential to guide policies aimed at securing the supply
of materials required for the functioning of society. The strategic importance of metals and
mineral resources as raw materials has become ever-more pronounced as the need for an
energy transition has risen to political prominence worldwide, and a variety of raw materials are
used in other important technologies such as communication, transport, construction,
aerospace, digital and defence. The advancement and resilience of these industries depend on
a steady and secure supply of specific raw materials, minerals, metals, alloys and manufactured
components. For example, renewable energy technologies, electric vehicles and batteries for
energy storage are all manufactured using a variety of raw materials that are sourced from and
processed across the world. Some raw materials, such as lithium, are experiencing very rapid
growth rates as many countries accelerate the uptake of related technologies.

This reliance on a broad spectrum of raw materials that may be mined or refined in only a few
countries has highlighted the complexity and lack of transparency in many global supply chains.
There is a significant risk of supply disruption for the raw materials essential to meet
decarbonisation goals — to sustain the development of infrastructure, information and
communication technologies — whilst maintaining sovereignty and national security. The
energy transition is highlighting the need to secure raw materials to electrify, reduce
dependency on fossil fuels and achieve energy security. At the same time, demand for raw
materials from existing industrial sectors will continue to require adequate and sustainable
supplies.

The raw materials considered in this report are those produced by mining natural resources that
have been formed in specific locations by geological processes within the Earth’s crust. Such
raw materials have a complex supply chain that starts with exploration, followed by mining and
initial processing. Subsequent further processing and refining yields materials that are sold to
manufacturers for use in their products. Finally, at the end of product life, recycling may
generate a supply of secondary raw materials.

The increasing demand for raw materials has led many regions, nations and industry sectors to
develop their own critical mineral lists (European Commission, 2023; U.S. Geological Survey,
2022b; Yan et al., 2021). The results of a CA help governments to actively develop policies
aimed at securing raw material supplies and enhancing economic resilience. This can be
achieved in many ways:




9
     •   investment in exploration, mining and processing, both at home and overseas
     •   development of alternative materials (where feasible)
     •   improved recycling technologies and a more circular economy
     •   optimisation of material use
     •   diplomatic efforts to secure stable trade relationships

Although substantial research and innovation are ongoing to develop circular economy
approaches such as recycling, at present the majority of critical (and non-critical) minerals must
be derived from primary sources given that there are not enough metal stocks in the urban and
industrial system yet. The development of a critical minerals list is an important first step in
understanding the unique economic and industrial landscape of a nation. For many reasons, not
all raw materials have the same importance across different economies or industries. This
nuanced, in-depth understanding ensures that policy interventions are tailored to address the
specific needs and strategic priorities of a country.

The classification of certain raw materials as critical minerals is consistent with the growth in
demand for technologies, such as renewable energy (wind turbines; solar photovoltaics, etc.),
electric vehicles (especially the batteries needing lithium and drive trains requiring rare earth
elements) and technologies supporting existing applications such as catalytic converters in
internal combustion vehicles (platinum and palladium, which ensure cleaner exhaust fumes and
improved urban air quality).

Resource-rich countries may consider some raw materials critical because they can be
produced in large enough quantities to supply consumers. Other consuming nations may deem
a raw material critical because of its essential role in a specific sector of the national economy.
Criticality therefore depends on perspective and scale; the list of critical minerals should reflect
the specific needs of the nation or industry that is conducting the exercise.

A CA typically uses two dimensions to identify critical minerals: the demand side of an
economy, commonly referred to as the ‘economic importance’ or ‘economic vulnerability’, and
the supply side, which assesses the likelihood of supply disruption.

This study constitutes an update of the UK Criticality Assessment of technology-critical minerals
and metals published in 2021 (Lusty et al., 2021). The analysis builds on lessons learned from
the previous exercise and expands the scope to incorporate a broader range of industrial
sectors and candidate raw materials. DBT commissioned CMIC to complete this report as part
of the work programme for 2024.

A review of global CA best practice and methodologies was published in 2023 by CMIC (Josso
et al., 2023) and serves as a guide for this assessment. The methodology has been further
developed here to improve the reliability and relevance of the assessment for the UK.

Given the highly complex and dynamic nature of global material supply chains (such as rapid
growth periods), any assessment is dependent on the availability of reliable, relevant and timely
data. Consequently, there is no single, correct or fixed list of critical minerals. Criticality can
change at any time in response to market conditions. A robust critical minerals list can flag up
the possibility of potential supply risks and highlight the need for additional in-depth studies of
particular raw materials. Importantly, a rigorous criticality assessment does not take account of
supply and demand forecasts or any other changes that may take place in minerals markets in
the coming years, as such changes cannot be accurately quantified.




10
2          Methodology
Criticality assessments are similar to risk assessments in that they aim to produce an evaluation
of the potential for the disruption of the supply of candidate materials and the resulting
economic impact of any supply disruption. The CA presented here has two dimensions: global
supply risk and UK economic vulnerability. These two dimensions are generally evaluated
through the quantification of various measurable indicators that reflect them in some way. Each
indicator is quantified using a range of metrics derived from reliable and publicly available
datasets.

A detailed discussion of the merits of the indicators commonly employed in raw materials CAs
and justifications for the selection of those used is provided in a dedicated methodology report
and in published literature (Josso et al., 2023; Schrijvers et al., 2020). In this assessment, a
small number of changes to the recommended methodology have been implemented following
detailed consideration and stakeholder consultation. A summary of each indicator, data used,
calculations and limitations is provided.


2.1        Candidate material list
Any CA must start with the identification of the candidate materials that will be considered. The
82 candidate materials evaluated in this study are listed in Table 2. They cover most elements
of the periodic table and a broad range of industrial minerals, thereby encompassing almost all
technologies and economic sectors.

Notable raw materials excluded from this assessment include (Josso et al., 2023):
   • all hydrocarbons and derivatives
   • biotic materials, such as rubber and wood
   • gases except natural hydrogen (H) and helium (He), which are included
   • highly processed materials, such as radionuclides
   • construction minerals such as aggregates, sand and gravel

The lanthanoids plus scandium (Sc) and yttrium (Y), commonly referred to as the rare earth
elements (REEs), are treated as a single entity in this assessment because many aspects of
their supply chains are not publicly available and most of the traded forms include multiple
REEs, making reliable individual assessment difficult (Josso et al., 2023).




11
Table 2 Candidate materials for this CA.

 Individual elements (56)
 Aluminium (Al)           Gallium (Ga)             Molybdenum (Mo)   Sodium (Na)
 Antimony (Sb)            Germanium (Ge)           Nickel (Ni)       Strontium (Sr)
 Arsenic (As)             Gold (Au)                Niobium (Nb)      Sulphur (S)
 Barium (Ba)              Hafnium (Hf)             Palladium (Pd)    Tantalum (Ta)
 Beryllium (Be)           Helium (He)              Phosphorus (P)    Tellurium (Te)
 Bismuth (Bi)             Hydrogen (H) (natural)   Platinum (Pt)     Thallium (Tl)
 Boron (B)                Indium (In)              Potassium (K)     Thorium (Th)
 Cadmium (Cd)             Iridium (Ir)             Rhenium (Re)      Tin (Sn)
 Caesium (Cs)             Iron (Fe)                Rhodium (Rh)      Titanium (Ti)
 Carbon (C) (as           Lead (Pb)                Rubidium (Rb)     Tungsten (W)
 graphite)
 Chromium (Cr)            Lithium (Li)             Ruthenium (Ru)    Uranium (U)
 Cobalt (Co)              Magnesium (Mg)           Selenium (Se)     Vanadium (V)
 Copper (Cu)              Manganese (Mn)           Silicon (Si)      Zinc (Zn)
 Fluorine (F)             Mercury (Hg)             Silver (Ag)       Zirconium (Zr)
 REEs (15 lanthanoids plus yttrium and scandium assessed as a single group)
 Lanthanum (La)           Samarium (Sm)            Dysprosium (Dy)   Ytterbium (Yb)
 Cerium (Ce)              Europium (Eu)            Holmium (Ho)      Lutetium (Lu)
 Praseodymium (Pr)        Gadolinium (Gd)          Erbium (Er)       Scandium (Sc)
 Neodymium (Nd)           Terbium (Tb)             Thulium (Tm)      Yttrium (Y)
 Promethium (Pm)
 Industrial minerals (25)
 Barite                   Garnet                   Perlite           Talc
 Bentonite clay           Gypsum                   Phosphate rock    Vermiculite
 Borate                   Kaolin clay              Pumice            Wollastonite
 Diamonds                 Kyanite                  Pyrite            Zeolite
 Diatomite                Limestone                Pyrophyllite
 Feldspar                 Magnesite                Rock salt
 Fluorspar                Natural graphite         Silica sand




12
2.2         Global supply risk dimension
No single country is self-sufficient in its capacity to domestically produce all the raw and refined
materials and processed products required to sustain its key industrial sectors. The global
supply risk dimension for each candidate material is estimated from four indicators reflecting the
overall supply chain bottlenecks:
   • production concentration indicator (PCI)
   • companionality (C)
   • global trade concentration (GTC)
   • recycling rates

     2.2.1 Production concentration indicator
This study deals with mined raw materials, which are produced across the world in areas where
geological processes have led to their concentration in a mineral deposit. When a deposit is
sufficiently well-characterised that it is considered potentially economic to extract, it is called a
mineral resource.

Although geological availability of mineral resources historically dictated centres of production,
national policies, globalisation and economies of scale have now become major influences and
have led to increased centralisation of production of some raw materials in a small number of
countries. This greater production concentration increases the exposure of supply chains to
disruption from many diverse causes, both artificial and natural. Artificial changes include
government policies and regulations, such as trade restrictions, taxation and resource
ownership. Supply disruption related to environmental and social parameters, such as civil
unrest, global conflict, pollution, disease and disasters, also becomes more likely with increased
concentration of production. The PCI characterises the level of production concentration for
each candidate material at the mining stage and, where data is available, at the refining stage.
In this study, average annual global production data for the five-year period 2018 to 2022,
derived from BGS World Mineral Production statistics (Idoine et al., 2024), was used in the
calculation of the PCI (Idoine et al., 2024). This data is complemented by other specialised
sources and compilations when required, to ensure quality and fill gaps (for example,
SCRREEN (2023d); U.S. Geological Survey (2024b)).

The first step in calculating the PCI is to identify the top three producing countries and their
proportional market share. Each share is then squared and multiplied by an environmental,
social and governance (ESG) indicator to reflect the additional risk represented by countries
with lower standards due to poor governance, civil unrest or pollution risks. The ESG indicator,
defined in Equation 1, is derived by calculating the geometric mean of:
    • United Nations Development Programme’s human development index (HDI) (Conceição
        et al., 2022)
    • Yale University’s environmental performance index (EPI) (Block et al., 2024)
    • World Bank’s world governance index (WGI) (World Bank, 2024)

Data is provided in Appendix 1.

ESG(i) = ∛ (EPI(i) * HDI(i) * WGI(i))

Equation 1 Calculation of ESG indicator, where ESG = environmental, social and governance; EPI =
environmental performance index; HDI = human development index; WGI = world governance index; (i) =
country being assessed.




13
The final PCI calculation, shown in Equation 2, is completed for both the mining and refining
stages of a raw material’s supply chain, resulting in a modified Hirschman-Herfindahl index
(HHI) 1. These results are normalised on a 1 to 10 scale for equivalence with other indicators in
the CA. The final PCI score used in estimation of the global supply risk dimension is based on
whichever is the higher of the two values calculated for the mining and refining stages.

𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃 = ∑31(5 𝑦𝑦𝑦𝑦 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎. % 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝(𝑖𝑖, 𝑛𝑛)2 ∗ 𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸(𝑖𝑖))

Equation 2 Final PCI calculation, where PCI = production concentration indicator;
ESG = environmental, social and governance.

2.2.2              Companionality and companion metal fractions
Many metal ores contain more than one metal and hence some metals are produced as a co- or
by-product of others (similarly true for minerals and gases). The share of production of a
material that is a co- or by-product derived from the mining and refining of a primary material is
referred to as the companion metal fraction (CMF). In the context of global mineral production,
only a limited number of raw materials are considered ‘primary’ products: these materials will be
the focus of a mining project and generate the revenues to sustain commercial viability.
Examples of primary products include metals such as copper (Cu), iron (Fe), aluminium (Al), tin
(Sn) and gold (Au), which are mined due to their long-established demand and significant
economic value. Other materials are mostly obtained as co-products or by-products (Nassar et
al., 2015). Co-products, such as zinc (Zn) and lead (Pb), are commonly mined together in
significant quantities, each with substantial economic value. By-products, in contrast, are
typically much lower value and are only extracted during the processing of primary commodities
or co-products. For example:
     • cobalt (Co) can be a co- or by-product of Cu or nickel (Ni) mining
     • tellurium (Te) can be a by-product of Cu or Au refining
     • indium (In) and germanium (Ge) are by-products of Zn refining

Understanding whether a material is a primary product, a co-product or a by-product is crucial
for analysing supply chains and market dynamics. The availability of co- and by-products is
inherently tied to the production levels of the primary products with which they are associated. If
the demand for Cu decreases, the production of Te as a by-product may also drop, regardless
of the market demand for Te itself. This dependency introduces supply constraints and price
volatility for many co- and by-products, which can impact industries that rely on them.

By-products are typically only extracted in the refining stage, with mining operations rarely being
compensated. Consequently, their supply is less responsive to changes in demand compared to
primary commodities. This can lead to supply bottlenecks, where the availability of a by-product
is insufficient to meet growing industry needs, especially if the demand for the primary material
is stable. Additionally, if a co- or by-product relies entirely on the market of a single primary
material, its supply will be seriously affected by any change in the primary material market. In
contrast, if a material is produced as a by-product from multiple primary materials, a major
market disruption of one of the primary materials will have a proportionally smaller impact as
alternative supplies remain operational. Understanding these relationships is essential for
anticipating market fluctuations, establishing secure supply chains and planning strategic
interventions to mitigate risks associated with the supply of these materials.




1 See www.investopedia.com/terms/h/hhi.asp



14
Many companion metals are found as substitute elements in the host minerals containing the
primary material. For example, most rhenium (Re) is extracted during smelting of the mineral
molybdenite (MoS2) since the Re substitutes for molybdenum (Mo) in small quantities
(Millensifer et al., 2014; Werner et al., 2023).

The CMF values for many commodities are reasonably well documented (Nassar et al., 2015);
however, these values can change rapidly when mines open or close down. For example, PGEs
were primary products of alluvial placer deposits from the late 18th to the early 20th century.
Most PGEs were then obtained as by-products of Ni-Cu mining until the middle of the 20th
century. Since the mid-20th century, primary hard-rock sources became predominant, notably
from South Africa (Mudd, 2023). Additionally, the global supply of REEs has shifted from being
a by-product of mineral sands mining before the 1970s, to development of primary sources (for
example, Mount Weld, Australia) and co-product REE mines (for example, Bayan Obo, China).

This highlights the importance of understanding co- and by-product sourcing and identifying
alternative resources that could support future supply.

In this assessment, CMF shares are estimated using global mine production statistics and by
allocating mineral deposit types to each producing country, allowing the proportion of primary,
co- and by-product status to be determined for each material. In this study, we have adopted
one of the following approaches to estimating CMF shares for each candidate material:
    • 100 per cent assigned to materials known to be primary production only (for example,
         Fe; Al; kyanite)
    • calculation based on fractions of a co- or by-product in different types of mineral deposits
         using either global studies (for example, Co (Mudd et al. (2013)) or assigning mineral
         deposit types by each country (for example, Re produced in some countries is derived
         from Cu processing; for others, it is from Mo smelting)
    • If one of the above is not possible, we adopt CMF fractions from Nassar et al. (2015),
         Graedel et al. (2022) and other literature

The companionality score is calculated by summing all the squares of each share of co- or by-
production, taking the log of this sum, and multiplying by the total CMF (Equation 3). This yields
scores on a 0 (100 per cent primary) to 400 (100 per cent co-or by-product from a single
source) scale, which are then normalised to a 1 to 10 scale. An example calculation for Co is
provided in Table 3.

𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶 = 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 ∗ log ∑𝑛𝑛1(co or byproduct shares)2

Equation 3 Calculation of companionality score for Co.




15
Table 3 Calculation of cobalt (Co) companionality score by assigning mineral deposit types within each
country producing Co. Copper (Cu), nickel (Ni), Platinum groups elements (PGEs) Shares based on world
mining production statistics (Idoine et al., 2024).


 Candidate      Primary production                Co- or by-production
 material
                Primary deposit        Share      Host            Major deposit        Share (%)
                of candidate           (%)        commodity       types
                material

 Co             Co-Ni-As (-Au-Ag)      1.4        Cu              Stratiform           69.4
                                                                  sediment-hosted
                mineralisation                                    Cu-Co

                                                  Ni-Co           Ni-Co laterites      17.6

                                                  Ni-Cu           Magmatic Ni-Cu       11.6
                                                                  (-Co-PGE)




According to data in Table 3, only 1.4 per cent of world Co production is from primary sources
(the Bou Azzer mine in Morocco (Leblanc and Billaud, 1982)), whilst 98.6 per cent is derived
from three major types of mineral deposit exploited chiefly for the production of Ni or Cu. On this
basis, the companionality score for Co is calculated as:

Companionality (Co) = (69.4 + 17.6 + 11.6) * log(69.42 + 17.62 + 11.62) = 367

This yields a score of 9.25 for Co companionality when normalised on a scale of 1 to 10.

This methodology extends the work of Nassar et al. (2015). It provides more comprehensive
and realistic estimates of companionality and the extent to which materials are produced as co-
or by-products. The approach relies on extensive geological knowledge of each material and
the mines or deposits in each country. Typical co- and by-products and their host primary
commodities are given in Table 4, noting that these are typical only and based on key literature
and the expert knowledge of BGS and CMIC staff.




16
Table 4 Typical co-/by-products and their host primary product developed from (Nassar et al., 2015; U.S.
Geological Survey, 2024b) and expert knowledge of BGS staff.


 Primary product         Typical co- or by-products
 Aluminium (Al)          Ga
 Copper (Cu)             Au; Mo; Ag; Co; Fe ore; pyrite; Te; Se; As; Bi; Re
 Gold (Au)               Ag; Cu; Te; Sb; Hg; As
 Iron (Fe) ore           REEs; Ti; V; Mn
 Lead (Pb)               Sb; Ag; Bi; Cu; Zn; Te; Au
 Molybdenum (Mo)         Re; W
 Nickel( Ni)             Cu; Pt; Pd; Rh; Co; Au; Ag; Sc; Se
 Platinum (Pt)-          Pd; Rh; Ru; Os; Ir; Ni; Cu; Co; Cr; Au
 Palladium (Pd)
 Tin (Sn)                REEs; W; Ag; Sc; In; Bi; Sb
 Titanium (Ti)-          REEs; Hf
 Zirconium (Zr)
 Zinc (Zn)               Cd; Ge; In; Ag; Au; Cu; Pb; Tl; Ga; Sn



2.2.3          Global trade concentration
No country is completely self-sufficient in all materials required for modern technologies and to
support economic growth. Consequently, global trade has evolved to facilitate the supply of
such materials, with many countries completely reliant on imports to meet their needs.
Furthermore, countries with a relatively large share of global imports can exert influence on that
material’s supply chain, especially in downstream manufacturing and, therefore, product
availability. In this context, we use GTC in the global supply risk dimension.

     Main data sources
     •   United Nations Comtrade (Comtrade)
     •   UKTrade Information (UKTI)

     Supplementary data sources
     •   International Trade Centre (ITC)
     •   Observatory of Economic Complexity (OEC)
     •   European Union’s Eurostat

Internationally, UN Comtrade is based on the ‘Harmonized commodity description and coding
system’ or HS codes. The HS codes are up to 10 digits in length, with the first six digits applied
at the global level and the last four at a national level, if desired. The first two digits represent
chapters or general product categories; the second and third digit pairs provide increasing
levels of detail and specificity.

For example, HS code 3924101000 corresponds to:
   • chapter 39: ‘Plastics and rubber articles’
   • heading 24: ‘Tableware and kitchenware’
   • subheading 10: ’Salt, pepper, ketchup and similar dispensers’
   • the last 10 and 00 are used by some countries for further classification


17
In general, trade data has been synthesised at four- or six-digit code levels in this study,
although a more detailed breakdown was required for some specialist commodities.

The trade database for each candidate material was established as follows:
     1. Identify all relevant raw material trade codes for each candidate material (HS codes)
     2. Download trade data from various sources (HM Revenue & Customs, 2024; International
        Trade Centre, 2024; United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 2024)
     3. Perform quality-control checks on the data (similar price values; realistic trends over time
        with no extreme changes; consistent magnitude and units of reporting, and that the
        source of trade is realistic with operating mines or refineries known to exist)
     4. Upload data to the candidate material spreadsheet template, which calculates the five-
        year average net import for each country and the fraction of global trade this represents
     5. Identify the top three net importers and calculate the HHI (Equation 4)
     6. Normalise the HHI score using a scale of 1 to 10
                                                                         3

                       𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 = � 𝑠𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖(𝑛𝑛)2
                                                                         1

Equation 4 Hirschmann-Herfindahl Index (HHI) calculation, where n is nth country (of 3).



Although trade data are extensive, there are some common issues to be considered when it is
used for detailed analysis. For example, different materials may be aggregated in a single trade
code (for example, HS 811299 includes Ge, In, gallium (Ga), niobium (Nb) and vanadium (V).
This makes it difficult, if not impossible, to reliably discern the quantities of each material
reported under that code. In addition, trade data may be incomplete from some countries or for
certain years, whilst some HS codes allow for monthly data as opposed to others that report
annually.

It is also important to be aware of potential errors in trade code data, including incorrect
magnitudes (for example, stated as kilograms when the data is in tonnes) and the application of
an incorrect code (for example, reporting refined metal rather than metal-rich concentrates that
still require refining). In a few cases, there is no realistic basis for the reported trade data (for
example, a country reporting exports of Ge when they have no Zn mining or refineries).

2.2.4        Recycling rates
The recycling of materials from end-of-life (EoL) products is potentially an important way to
complement primary supply. Recycling, also known as secondary supply, effectively diversifies
the supply base, thereby reducing supply risks and import dependence. Secondary supply also
contributes to resource conservation, lowers the environmental impacts and energy use linked
to primary extraction and reduces the need for imports, thereby improving economic outcomes
and resilience and reducing vulnerability.

A review of the literature on recycling rates and a wealth of terminology associated with the
recycling of materials has been described in the revised methodology report (Josso et al.,
2023). A conceptual representation of material flows along a supply chain is given in Figure 1,
including how two key metrics for recycling are estimated: the end-of-life recycling rate (EoLRR)
and the end-of-life recycling input rate (EoLRIR). The EoLRR represents how much material is
collected for recycling rather than disposal, whilst EoLRIR estimates how much recycled
material is used within a new material or product.

In an ideal world, both EoLRR and EoLRIR would reach 100 per cent. In practice, both
parameters seldom approach this value. The reasons for this are numerous and include:


18
     •   regulatory issues
     •   consumer behaviour, especially cross-contamination of materials, which affects the
         ability to recycle or the quality of a recycled material
     •   system design leading to losses, such as process losses leading to waste disposal
     •   lack of technological capacity to recycle certain products and materials
     •   product design that mixes materials, which makes them harder to recycle
     •   the long time it can take to build sufficient stocks in urban and industrial systems to
         provide flows for recycling

(United Nations Environment Programme et al. (2013).)




Figure 1 Typical supply chain and life cycle of materials, including the definition of end-of-life recycling
collection rate (EoLRR) and end-of-life recycling input rate (EoLRIR). (Redrawn from United Nations
Environment Programme et al. (2013)). Copyright © United Nations Environment Programme 2013.



EoLRIR is the most commonly used recycled content indicator (European Commission et al.,
2020a; Lusty et al., 2021) and, in principle, is the best indicator to use in CAs. However, it is
difficult to obtain consistent and reliable RIR values at either the global or UK level for all
candidate materials. This is due largely to data gaps and inconsistencies, together with
variations in the methods used to calculate the recycling rates highlighted in Figure 1 (Josso et
al., 2023).

The EoLRIR and EoLRR values describe different parts of a material’s supply chain (Figure 1).
The EoLRIR represents the secondary feedstock share in a production process, whereas the
EoLRR is a measure of the efficiency in waste management. An efficient collection and
recovery system leads to higher EoLRR (for example, Fe, Cu, Pb and Au), but does not
necessarily translate into higher EoLRIR due to the dynamics of primary supply, stocks,
technologies involved in secondary supply chains and consumer and industry choices. In other
words, the contribution of secondary material may still be low relative to primary sourcing
despite a high EoLRR. For this study, we adopt EoLRR as it is more widely documented at a
whole-system level.

Recycled materials, particularly minor metals, are commonly downcycled to a lower-quality use
or product, rather than contributing to the feedstock requirements for their original applications.
Whilst this provides an additional source of supply for downcycled end-use applications, it does
not contribute to supply of typically higher-purity and commonly higher-specification material.
Although the materials may not be recovered in their pure form, recycling allows many materials
to be effectively re-used many times, thus supporting the development of a circular economy.

19
The calculation of the EoLRR for the end-use applications of each candidate material is based
on the methodology outlined by Graedel et al. (2022) using Equation 5, combined with various
sources for the shares of end-use applications. An example is given in Table 5.


                                                      𝑛𝑛

                                     𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖 = � 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒_𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑖𝑖,𝑗𝑗 ∗ 𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝑖𝑖,𝑗𝑗
                                                    𝐽𝐽=1

Equation 5 Where EoLRRi indicates the EoLRR of the ith material; end_usei,j denotes the percentage of
the jth end use of the ith material; EoLRRi,j indicates the end-of-life recycling rate of the jth end use of the ith
material.



This approach reflects global recycling rather than UK EoLRR, hence the indicator forms a
component of the global supply risk dimension. In general, the uses of major metals and
industrial minerals tend to change slowly over time, meaning the available EoLRR data provides
reasonable insights into the global recycling rate of individual candidate materials.


Table 5 Calculation of the EoLRR: using Cu as an example. Data from Baldé et al. (2024); EuRIC AISBL
(Undated); International Copper Association (2022)).


 Application or sector                                         Global market share           EoLRR (%)
                                                               of Cu (%)
 Power generation, distribution and                            44                            90
 transmission
 Construction                                                  20                            90
 Electric appliances                                           14                            60
 Transport                                                     12                            90
 Others                                                        10                            0
 Global total                                                  100                           77



2.2.5         Further considerations for assessing global supply risk
Ideally, global supply risk would be assessed for the complete supply chain, including primary
production, refining, processing and manufacturing, to provide a comprehensive evaluation of
bottlenecks at each stage. However, for most candidate materials, available data of adequate
quality for the refining, processing and manufacturing stages are incomplete or entirely absent.
In addition, numerous raw materials are combined at the manufacturing stage into compounds,
components and products of varying complexity. This makes tracking the complete supply chain
for even a single material very challenging. Dedicated studies focusing on specific technological
sectors would be a complementary measure to enable a deeper understanding of production
concentration.

The level of production concentration at each stage of the supply chain could also be
investigated at the company level to determine how many companies operate in each
commodity market, irrespective of the locations of the centres of production or refining. If
production is concentrated in the hands of only a few companies, even if their activities are
widespread geographically, the risk of supply disruption is relatively high. Similarly, the

20
ownership and source of financing for these companies should ideally be evaluated (for
example, (UNSGPCETM, 2024)) because of their importance in market dynamics and
governance.

Reliable information of this type is not easily found and verified. Ownership and funding sources
are also likely to change, especially during periods of rapid growth and technological change,
meaning that such information must be current and old studies should not be relied upon. These
aspects are beyond the scope of the current study.


2.3             UK economic vulnerability dimension
The UK economic vulnerability dimension is determined from three indicators evaluated for
each candidate material:
   • UK apparent consumption (AC)
   • UK net import reliance (NIR)
   • contribution to UK gross value added (GVA)

2.3.1            UK apparent consumption
The UK AC indicator quantifies the economic value of a candidate material to the UK economy.
It combines all imports into and exports from the UK of candidate materials using the HS code
system and data from UN Comtrade and UK Trade Info or others as needed (Section 2.4).
Based on all relevant global trade code data averaged over 2018 to 2022 inclusive, the value of
UK AC is estimated according to Equation 6.

Apparent consumption (AC£) = 𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴£ + 𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴£ − 𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴𝛴£

Equation 6 Estimate of UK AC. All data in £.



For some trade codes where the UK is a net exporter, the calculation returns a negative value
since the value of exports exceeds UK production and imports (for example, chromium (Cr);
PGEs). This is typically due to the import of waste and scrap, or other low-value material forms,
which are either recycled or processed into higher-quality materials and products. These are
then exported at higher value.

To normalise the AC values from 1 to 10, raw materials for which the UK is a net exporter
default to 1 and the maximum value is set to 10. All other values are scaled as a proportion of
the maximum (further explained in Section 2.9.1).

2.3.2            UK net import reliance
The UK NIR indicator quantifies the extent to which the UK is reliant on physical imports of a
candidate material. It combines the mass of all imports to and exports from the UK of candidate
materials using the HS code system and data from UN Comtrade and UK Trade Info or others
as needed (Section 2.2.3). For example, the UK has no operating Cu or Fe mines, meaning it is
completely (100 per cent) reliant on imports of these raw materials.

Based on all relevant trade code data averaged over the five-year period 2018 to 2022, UK NIR
is estimated according to Equation 7.

NIR = (∑ 𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 − ∑ 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒) / ∑ 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐

Equation 7 Estimation of UK NIR in %, based on data in kilograms.




21
The apparent consumption is calculated in the same way as described in Equation 6 but uses
mass instead of value. In most cases, the UK is 100 per cent reliant on imports, leading to a
score of 10 on the normalised scale (further explained in Section 2.9.1). The issue of trade
barriers is addressed later in Section 2.13.

2.3.3        UK gross value added
UK GVA is a way to measure the financial value of goods and services in the UK economy,
allowing assessment at national and regional levels and across different industries or sectors of
the economy. It is calculated from an annual business survey, leading to a comprehensive set
of statistics covering all sectors of the UK economy. The allocation of business activity is based
on ‘Standard industrial classification’ (SIC) codes (Office for National Statistics, 2007). These
are similar to HS codes in trade data and map business activity to subsections of major
industrial sectors. For example, two-digit SIC codes map major industrial sectors (for example,
07 is metal mining; 26 is electronics manufacturing), whilst four-digit SIC codes map to specific
parts of each industrial sector (or example, 07.29 is mining of non-ferrous metal ores; 26.51 is
manufacture of instruments and appliances for measuring, testing and navigation). The previous
UK Criticality Assessment (Lusty et al., 2021) mapped candidate materials to specific economic
activities at the two-digit code level.

It should be noted that the CA methodology review (Josso et al., 2023) identified various issues
in the division of GVA according to individual materials. These included:
     • lack of accurate sector-use data, especially as this changes over time
     • difficulty in mapping economic value against manufacturing sectors when such activity or
        value cuts across multiple sectors
     • challenge of attributing economic importance to a candidate material, especially when
        the mass utilised is small (for example, minor metals, such as Te and Ga)

For example, elements included in the manufacturing of semi-conductors, such as silicon (Si),
tantalum (Ta), Ga and Ge, are attributable to the GVA of the electronics manufacturing sector
(SIC code 26), rather than the GVA of all the sectors using microchips and other electronic
components (for example, computers; phones; cars; planes; financial services, etc.), which
represent a wide array of SIC codes far exceeding SIC code 26 alone.

For this study, we incorporate the GVA into the UK economic vulnerability dimension to link a
candidate material to the particular economic sectors in which it is used. In general, the same
end-use sectors identified in the recycling rate indicator are mapped as closely as possible
against SIC codes, or completed with additional details depending upon availability of data (see
Appendix 1). We have reviewed previous CAs from the UK (Lusty et al., 2021) and EU
(European Commission, 2023) and developed a new schema that maps candidate materials to
SIC codes at the four-digit level. This allows for a more direct link between the use of candidate
materials to specific economic activities at the four-digit level, thereby giving more realistic GVA
estimates for each candidate material.

To develop the GVA indicator, data for end-use sectors is collected, linking economic data for
end uses to those from the recycling stage to the extent that the data allows. Next, four-digit SIC
codes are allocated against each end use greater than 10 per cent. (Any share smaller than this
is considered negligible in the context of this assessment). The total GVA is then calculated as
the proportional value of all end-uses and their respective GVA values (Equation 8).
                                            𝑛𝑛

                               𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝑗𝑗 = �(%𝑠𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑗𝑗 ∗ 𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝑖𝑖 )
                                           𝐽𝐽=1

Equation 8 Calculation of total GVA, where i is sector, j is share, n is number of sectors.




22
The GVA results are then scaled from 1 to 10, further explained in Section 2.9.1). Given the
importance of diversified economic sectors across the UK, it was considered important to
include GVA in this assessment rather than to exclude it, as was recommended by Josso et al.
(2023).


2.4        Future technology-driven demand
The revised CA methodology (Josso et al., 2023) proposed the development of technology-
specific foresight studies to represent the increased material demands driven by that
technology. For example, a detailed assessment of the future growth in battery demand for
electric vehicles would need to evaluate all the key materials of Li-based batteries. Depending
on battery chemistry, this could include Ni, manganese (Mn), Co, graphite, Fe and phosphate.
Such a study could explore various scenarios for the deployment of electric vehicles over time
combined with different assumptions of changing battery chemistry. The derived time series of
future material demand compared with data on historical supply would allow this indicator to be
quantified. For this study, we did not include demand foresights in in the calculation of UK
economic vulnerability and then criticality. The demand foresight studies completed focussed on
decarbonisation technologies, leading to demand predictions for 28 raw materials. There are 82
candidate raw materials for this CA, meaning that if we did proceed to include a calculation
process for adjusting the 28 demand foresight-related raw materials, the other 56 candidate raw
materials would not be adjusted in any way. Some of these 56 raw materials, however, can be
expected to see rapid growth, such as V used in redox flow batteries used for grid energy
storage. Therefore, to avoid introducing inaccuracies into the calculation of UK economic
vulnerability and criticality, an approach of case studies for selected materials was adopted.
Further discussion of foresight studies is given in Section 4.3.


2.5        Criticality scores, graphical representation and thresholds
2.5.1       Normalisation of indicator scores
All indicators have been normalised to a scale of 1 to 10 so that they can be integrated into the
calculation of the two primary dimensions: global supply risk (S) and UK economic vulnerability
(V). This approach ensures that all components are scored in the same way before calculating
the S and V dimensions. When possible, the normalisation process aims to use the full range of
possible values for the indicator, rather than the observed range in the data, to maintain
proportionality and better reflect the true distribution of the data population. The full range can
be defined for the EoLRR and NIR indicators, which vary between 0 and 100 per cent, or
between 0 and 400 for companionality.

An absolute maximum value for the ESG-weighted mined and refined production concentration,
GTC, GVA, and UK AC indicators cannot be produced. Therefore, the minimum and maximum
values observed for each indicator, respectively, are used for normalisation to the 1 to 10 scale.
This results in an increased spread in the ranking of each candidate material on these
indicators, as shown in Table 6.




23
Table 6 Examples of the conversion from raw to normalised scores (indexed from 1 to 10).


 Range                          Raw score             Normalised             Raw score       Normalised
                                                      score                                  score
                                (0 to 100%)                                  (minimum /
                                                                             maximum)

 Minimum                        0                     1.0                    1310            1.0

 Possible value #1              23                    3.1                    15512           4.1

 Possible value #2              57                    6.1                    23908           6.0

 Possible value #3              75                    7.7                    34735           8.3

 Maximum                        100                   10.0                   42250           10.0



2.5.2           Calculation of supply and vulnerability dimension scores
Combination of indicator values into scores for the S and V dimensions is achieved through the
use of a geometric mean (Equation 9). Using this mathematical function, rather than the
arithmetic mean or summing the indicator scores, results in a more robust representation of
indicator scores expressed in different units and where dimensions contain different numbers of
indicators or could be temporally correlated (Josso et al., 2023). This scoring is preferable to
binning the data into categories of low/medium/high scores, which leads to a loss of data
resolution and artificially inflates differences between categories.

Geometric mean = n√ (x1 * x2 * … * xn)

Equation 9 Combination of n indicator values into scores for the S and V dimensions.



Assuming a set of weighting factors, w = (w1; w2; … ; wn), the weighted geometric means
becomes Equation 10.

Dimension = exp (∑ 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖 ∗ ln (𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖)𝑖𝑖 ) / ∑ 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡

Equation 10 Weighted geometric means for i materials.



In this situation, as the weighting factors are percentages adding up to 100 per cent, the last
component in this formula equals 1. Equation10 is therefore simplified to Equation 11.

Dimension = exp (∑ 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖 ∗ ln (𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖)𝑖𝑖 )

Equation 11 Simplified Equation 10 for i materials.




24
In this CA, for global supply risk, the following weighting values were adopted:
    • PCI: 75 per cent
    • GTC: 10 per cent
    • CMF: 10 per cent
    • recycling: 5 per cent

These weightings were chosen as they highlight that the area of greatest supply risk starts with
primary extraction (mining) and subsequent processing (refining). On the other hand, global
trade is more dispersed; co- and by-product status cannot be changed; and recycling rates are
often low and are difficult to improve. Furthermore, based on expert judgement, world mining
and refining data are considered to be excellent quality, whereas global trade and
companionality data are more complex (as described above) and recycling data retains some
uncertainty given the lack of comprehensive studies. For these reasons, the weightings have
been assigned in such a way as to place the focus on global production concentration. Finally,
multivariate testing shows that giving a reduced weighting to production concentration tends to
reduce the spread in plotting, thereby reducing the ability to clearly distinguish critical from non-
critical minerals. In other words, production concentration remains a dominant factor in global
supply risk and this needs to be accounted for in its weighting factor.

For UK economic vulnerability, the following weighting values were adopted:
   • UK AC: 35 per cent
   • UK NIR: 45 per cent
   • GVA: 20 per cent

These were chosen to reflect the economic value of consumption (AC) and, if an economy is
dependent on imports, this is relatively more important than consumption. A modest weighting is
assigned to GVA to account for the link between a material and its economic sector and use.
Similar to global supply risk, a lower weighting factor is used for GVA given the uncertainty in
how accurately the GVA data actually represents the uses of materials for different economic
sectors.

These weightings are similar to those adopted in the 2021 assessment (Lusty et al., 2021). The
weightings to be adopted were discussed during stakeholder consultation, where broad
agreement was noted on the justification and values adopted. A complete worked example is
shown in Table 7.

Table 7 Examples of estimating dimension scores based on normalised indices and incorporated
weightings (Equation 11). PCI: production concentration indicator; GTC: global trade concentration; C:
companionality; RR: end-of-life recycling collection rate (EoLRR, also referred to as recycling); AC: UK
apparent consumption (value basis); NIR: net import reliance; GVA: gross value added.


                 Global supply risk (S)           UK economic                Dimension        Criticality
                                                  vulnerability (V)          scores           score

                 PCI     GTC     C       EoL      AC       NIR      GVA      S       V
                                         RR

 Weighting       0.75    0.1     0.1     0.05     0.35     0.45     0.20

 Material #1     1.9     2.6     1.0     10       6.2      5.6      1.4      2.0     4.4      3.0




25
2.5.3        Criticality score and critical space representation
The plotting of the two dimensions of global supply risk and UK economic vulnerability against
each other in graphical form (an X-Y graph) creates a two-dimensional area to plot results. This
is also known as the ‘critical space matrix’. In this assessment, it uses convex isocritical
contours, or curves of equal value, to separate critical from non-critical minerals. This geometry
is adopted from risk management, where risk is the product of the two axes of probability and
severity (Josso et al., 2023). In this study, criticality is defined as the product of global supply
risk and UK economic vulnerability. To maintain the scale within 1 to 10, the final criticality score
for each material is calculated as in Equation 12.

Criticality = √ (economic vulnerability * global supply risk)

Equation 12 Final criticality score calculation.



This implies that lines of equal criticality score will be convex, rather than orthogonal (or straight
lines). This representation allows a more logical interpretation of the degrees of criticality as a
function of global supply risk and economic vulnerability, as shown in Figure 2.




Figure 2 The use of isocritical contours to represent lines of equal criticality (for example, 6 6), also
referred to as criticality thresholds (adapted from risk management). (Josso et al., 2023)



For example, materials A, B and C in Figure 2 all have the same criticality score of 6. Using
orthogonal criticality threshold lines set at 5 for each dimension (represented by dashed lines on
the plot in Figure 2) would lead to only material B being classified as critical, despite materials A
and C having the same criticality score of 6.

Defining contours as convex lines has three main advantages over orthogonal thresholds
commonly used in previous assessments (European Commission, 2023; Lusty et al., 2021):
   • criticality increases in clear, regular steps, demarcated by single lines rather than a pair
       of lines representing each criticality dimension


26
     •   a convex geometry avoids the serious issue in the classification of the degree of
         criticality where materials plot close to one or other of the orthogonal thresholds
         commonly utilised in CA. For such materials, a small change in the value of any metric
         could have a significant impact on the criticality classification, thus diminishing the
         robustness of the assessment (Figure 2)
     •   the top-right quadrant (high criticality) resulting from orthogonal thresholds fails to
         classify candidate materials that do not meet one of the dimension thresholds as critical
         (such as materials A and C in Figure 2), despite them scoring very highly on one
         dimension. As such, convex contours allow a more accurate representation of critical
         space

2.5.4        Definition of criticality threshold
The definition of a criticality threshold is the most subjective stage in the CA process. Scoring all
candidate materials is a relatively standard mathematical process, based on quantitative data
and resulting in a set of reproducible scores. In contrast, the choice of where to position the
threshold that distinguishes critical and non-critical minerals is subjective. This decision is highly
significant as the list of critical minerals serves as an essential tool to guide investment,
research and development and policy interventions, which are in turn informed by the data
synthesised during the CA.

A consultation exercise was undertaken with representatives from Government, industry and
academia to discuss the implications of where to position the criticality threshold. Ultimately, this
decision needs to reflect the ambition of Government to invest in de-risking the supply chains of
the raw materials classified as critical minerals.

During this consultation exercise, participants were presented with results of the CA and asked
where the criticality threshold should be positioned. The position of individual candidate
materials within the criticality matrix was fixed, whilst the implications of defining a particular
contour as the critical threshold were explored. The criticality threshold adopted is discussed
after the presentation of results in Section 3.


2.6         Methodology amendments and adopted criticality matrix
In the early stages of this CA, it became apparent that two aspects of the methodology
recommended by Josso et al. (2023) should be amended, namely trade barriers and demand
foresights. In addition, changes were required to a small number of candidate materials as well
as a process to describe data quality.

2.6.1        Changes to the methodology: trade barriers
The incorporation of trade barriers in CA is complex and fraught with numerous methodological
and data reliability challenges. Other assessments have used the frequency of embargoes,
tariffs and quotas to develop a score for trade barriers (for example, European Commission
(2023)). Although this approach is potentially useful, it is based on data of highly variable
quality. For instance, trade barriers can be established at any time, even without any historical
precedent or tendency to apply such measures. Such barriers may be applied to an entire
sector or commodity (such as China’s REE export quotas of 2010) or to specific materials,
commodities or technologies. Furthermore, the use of a historical dataset (for example,
(Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2020)) is not a reliable predictor of
future trade barriers or their potential severity, nor does the dataset cover all countries or
candidate materials (Lusty et al., 2021).

The inclusion of trade barriers in the assessment should also take account of international trade
agreements, which are designed to facilitate trade. In considering how to incorporate trade
barriers in the analysis, it is necessary to distinguish between barriers applied at the country

27
level — in which case any factor would apply to all trade data — and those for specific
commodities, products or technologies. Such barriers would have to be assessed for hundreds
of trade codes and, in the case of process-related technologies (for example, process
technologies for manufacturing REE-based permanent magnets), there are no HS codes
against which to apply such trade barriers.

Given the methodological complexity and the lack of sufficiently robust and complete data for all
countries, trade codes and candidate materials, trade barriers have been excluded from the
calculation of UK economic vulnerability. Instead, selected case studies of trade barriers for
different candidate materials are discussed in Section 4.5.

2.6.2        Changes to the methodology: demand foresights
A common challenge for CAs is that they represent a point in time and use recent, but still
historical, data. Ideally, CAs should also incorporate a future demand indicator based on past
production, expert analysis of future trends and scenarios for demand growth. The data and
assumptions underlying these are generally quite variable and uncertain, and they cannot be
reliably applied to numerous materials over an extended time period. For example, Drexhage et
al. (2017) noted that ‘energy storage is regarded as the most difficult to predict and therefore
the most uncertain’ (p. 16).

A better way to incorporate future demand growth into CA would be to undertake in-depth, top-
down foresight studies. For example, various scenarios for the growth of wind turbine
deployment over time could be evaluated. Together with associated material intensity models,
these would allow estimation of future material demands. An evaluation of this type, allied to
those for material demand in other technologies, would be a valuable tool in planning to ensure
adequate, secure and sustainable supplies in the future.
To explore the trend in future material demand for the UK related to major decarbonisation
technologies up to 2050, CMIC conducted nine foresight studies2 on:
    • solar photovoltaics (Petavratzi et al., 2024e)
    • traction motors (Petavratzi et al., 2024b)
    • electric vehicle batteries (Petavratzi et al., 2024d)
    • nuclear power (Jackson et al., 2024b)
    • electrolysers and H-fuel cells (Zils, 2024b; Zils, 2024c)
    • wind turbines (Petavratzi et al., 2024c)
    • heat pumps (Zils, 2024a)
    • the electrical grid (Jackson et al., 2024a)

A synthesis report (Petavratzi et al., 2024a) explores the interactions of cross-sector
competition and global demand for 28 materials (for example, Li, Nb, Ni and Co, amongst
others). There are many other technological changes underway in both the UK and global
economies, including:
   • digital transformation, including the rise of artificial intelligence and the emergence of
        quantum computing
   • fossil-fuel phase out
   • construction
   • grid-scale energy storage systems, such as V redox flow batteries

The CMIC foresight studies do not cover the materials required for such technologies and
changes. In other words, the foresight studies cover 28 materials but miss two-thirds of the 82
candidate materials, and so anticipated changes in demand cannot be incorporated in a




2 All CMIC foresight studies, plus the synthesis report, are due for public release in late 2024.



28
quantitative way for calculating criticality. For this reason, it was decided not to include a
demand foresight-related indicator in the UK economic vulnerability dimension. Instead, the
findings from the UK demand foresight analyses, combined with available global demand
scenarios for selected key materials (Li; permanent magnet-related REEs; Cu) have been
explored to determine how economic vulnerability could change under different global demand
scenarios (Section 4.3).

2.6.3        Changes to the candidate raw materials list
Several candidate raw materials have been excluded from this analysis for various reasons,
chiefly due to lack of data or overlap between individual commodities. The key changes from
the candidate materials list (Table 1) are:
     •   excluded due to lack of production and/or trade data:
             o caesium (Cs)
             o natural H
             o rubidium (Rb)
             o thallium (Tl)
             o thorium (Th)
             o wollastonite
             o zeolite
     •   mercury (Hg) has been excluded because it is no longer used as a raw material, with
         modest UK trade activity relating to waste management only. The Minamata Convention
         on Hg was agreed and signed in 2013 and came into force on 16 August 2017, leading
         to strict provisions on all uses and trade of Hg and Hg-containing products (United
         Nations Environment Programme, 2019)
     •   where there are both mineral and metallic uses of an element (for example, titanium (Ti)
         in metal form or as the oxide rutile (TiO2)), we have aligned the analysis based on the
         dominant forms used. For example, barium (Ba) is almost entirely used in mineral form
         as barite, meaning all data were synthesised and assessed as barite
     •   simplification and removal of duplications was carried out for various materials with
         almost identical production and trade data:
             o Ba included in barite
             o boron (B) included with borates
             o fluorspar included with fluorine (F)
             o phosphate rock included in phosphorus (P)
             o pyrite data attributed to Fe (roasted pyrite) or S (unroasted pyrite)
             o carbon (C) included with graphite (natural)
     •   name changes were adopted to distinguish industrial process use of these minerals (for
         example, in chemical plants) from those in the quarrying, aggregates and construction
         sectors (for example, limestone used as road base or sand used in construction):
             o silica sand was changed to industrial (silica) sand
             o limestone to industrial limestone
             o rock salt (NaCl) to industrial salt
             o sodium (Na) to sodium compounds (includes mostly sodium carbonate (Na2CO3),
                  with some sodium nitrate (NaNO3) and minor amounts of Na metal)

2.6.4        Data quality
Much of the data used in this CA can be considered accurate and reliable. However, expert
judgement and experience have highlighted concerns about the quality of some published
datasets and served to emphasise the need for continual scrutiny of reported data.

There are instances where trade and other data are implausible or incorrect. For example, UN
Comtrade data for 2019 shows 6.2 million tonnes (t) of ores and concentrates exported from
Mozambique under HS261590 ((United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs,
2024), which includes V, Ta and Nb, despite no operating V or Nb mines and only 132 t of Ta in

29
2019 (Idoine et al., 2024). Total world production of V and Nb in 2019 was 111 000 and
84 000 t, respectively (Idoine et al., 2024), confirming that the Mozambique data is in error.

Another example is provided by the reported export from Peru of almost 1900 t of uranium (U)
ores and concentrates in 2019 and 2020. This data is considered incorrect because there is no
operating U mine or pilot project in Peru nor any record of U imports that might be available for
re-export. Moreover, there is no officially recognised U production reported for Peru at the
international level (that is, no production recorded by (Nuclear Energy Agency et al., 2022;
World Nuclear Association, 2024a; Idoine et al., 2024)).

As part of quality control and quality assurance (QA/QC), all trade data has been carefully
checked for unexpected patterns and trends over time, for unusual or rapid shifts in commodity
prices and for major changes in reported volumes, which may reflect the use of incorrect units.
Where trade data was missing, alternative sources were checked (Section 2.4) and compared
to UN Comtrade and UK Trade Information, using expert judgements on whether to merge such
data or leave blank. Given the extent (large data volumes) of some trade codes and their
complexity (for example, HS code 811292 includes five elements — Ga, Ge, In, Nb and V —
that are mostly geologically exclusive to each other and do not crossover in materials used in
modern technologies), together with uncertainty regarding metal contents (for example, waste
and scrap; semi-manufactured goods), expert judgement was required to determine how data
was used or adjusted.

After all QA/QC checks were completed, a final data-quality categorisation using a traffic light
system was adopted (Appendix 2).
     •   Green: complete, up-to-date, reliable (for example, all five years of data; data consistent
         and certain)
     •   Amber: partially useable (for example, data for a single year only; some inconsistencies
         or uncertainties in data or metal contents)
     •   Red: unreliable or not available (for example, no data or high uncertainty; apparent
         errors)

Where a candidate material received four or more amber scores, it was considered of poorer
quality but still judged reasonable to include in results; materials with two or more red ticks were
excluded from the results and criticality plot.

2.6.5        Criticality matrix and plot
The complete CA methodology used in this study is illustrated in Figure 3 with final equations
for each indicator, dimension and key data sources given in Table 8.




30
Figure 3 Summary of the UK Criticality Assessment matrix, showing the four indicators used to calculate
the global supply risk (S) and the three indicators to calculate UK economic vulnerability (V). The
criticality score (C) is the geometric mean of the product of both axis values (Josso et al., 2023). BGS ©
UKRI.



Table 8 Key indicator equations and data sources for the CA. References: BGS (Idoine et al., 2024; Bide
et al., 2024); USGS (U.S. Geological Survey, 2024a; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024b); World Bank – world
governance indicators (World Bank, 2024); Yale University – environmental performance index (Wolf et
al., 2022); UNDP – human development index (United Nations Development Programme, 2024); UN
Comtrade (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 2024); UK Trade Info (HM
Revenue & Customs, 2024); ITC (International Trade Centre, 2024); OEC (The Observatory of Economic
Complexity (2024); UK ONS (Office for National Statistics (2024).


 Indicator         Equation                                                                     Data sources

 Mining                       3                                                                 BGS; USGS;
 concentration     𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀 = �(5 𝑦𝑦𝑦𝑦 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎. % 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝(𝑖𝑖, 𝑛𝑛)2    specialist
                              1                                                                 sources/syntheses
                                         ∗ 𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸(𝑖𝑖))

 Refining                     3                                                                 BGS; USGS;
 concentration      𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅 = �(5 𝑦𝑦𝑦𝑦 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎. % 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝(𝑖𝑖, 𝑛𝑛)2   specialist
                              1                                                                 sources/syntheses
                                          ∗ 𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸(𝑖𝑖))




31
Indicator         Equation                                                            Data sources

ESG index         ESG = ∛ (EPI(i) * HDI(i) * WGI(i))                                  World Bank (WGI);
                                                                                      Yale University
                                                                                      (EPI); UNDP (HDI)

Production        PCI = maximum (MI, RI)                                              This study
concentration

Companion-                𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶                                BGS; USGS;
ality                     = 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐 𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓            specialist
                                    𝑛𝑛
                                                                                      sources/syntheses
                          ∗ log � co or byproduct shares (𝑛𝑛)2
                                    1


Global trade                                 3                                        UN Comtrade; UK
concentration                𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺 = � 𝑠𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖(𝑛𝑛)2              Trade Info; ITC;
                                             1                                        OEC; BGS

                                                 𝑛𝑛
End-of-life                                                                           Various industry,
collection rate         𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸 − 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑖𝑖 = � 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑑𝑑𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢 𝑖𝑖,𝑗𝑗 ∗ 𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸 − 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑖𝑖,𝑗𝑗   Government and
                                             𝐽𝐽=1                                     academic sources

Global supply        𝑆𝑆 = exp (� 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖 ∗ ln (𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖)𝑖𝑖 )    This study
risk
                                             / � 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡


UK apparent       AC£ = production£ + imports£ – exports£                             UN Comtrade; UK
consumption                                                                           Trade Info; ITC;
                  (based on £value in trade data)                                     OEC; BGS

UK net import     NIR = (importskg – exportskg) / ACkg                                UN Comtrade; UK
reliance                                                                              Trade Info; ITC;
                  ACkg = productionkg + importskg – exportskg                         OEC; BGS

                  (based on mass in trade data)

                                        𝑛𝑛
Gross value                                                                           UK ONS
added                  𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝑗𝑗 = �(%𝑠𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑖,𝑗𝑗 ∗ 𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝑖𝑖 )
                                    𝐽𝐽=1


UK economic          𝑉𝑉 = exp (� 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖 ∗ ln (𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖)𝑖𝑖 )    This study
vulnerability
                                             / � 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡


Criticality       C = √ (S * V)                                                       This study




32
3          Results
3.1          Principal results
The normalised scores for all indicators are shown in Table 9. Complete results for each
indicator are given in Appendices 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.

Table 9 Normalised scores for each indicator used in the CA. For the production concentration indicator
(PCI), the higher value of the mined and refined scores is used. Abbreviations: M is mining; R, refining;
PCI, production concentration indicator; GTC, global trade concentration; C, companionality; EoLRR,
end-of-life recycling collection rate; AC, apparent consumption; NIR, net import reliance; and GVA, gross
value added; ND, no data; NR, not relevant.


 Candidate material        Global supply risk                                   Economic
                                                                                vulnerability

                           M       R       PCI      GTC     C       EoLRR       AC      NIR      GVA

 Aluminium (Al)            2.2     3.8     3.8      6.1     1.0     3.6         7.1     6.1      2.1

 Antimony (Sb)             4.1     4.7     4.7      1.7     3.5     8.2         3.7     9.3      1.7

 Arsenic (As)              NR      4.2     4.2      2.4     9.1     10.0        1.5     10.0     1.4

 Beryllium (Be)            3.7     3.2     3.7      1.9     2.2     9.5         3.2     8.0      1.8

 Bismuth (Bi)              4.3     7.5     7.5      2.5     8.7     10.0        1.9     10.0     2.3

 Cadmium (Cd)              NR      2.0     2.0      6.3     9.6     8.4         2.0     10.0     1.1

 Chromium (Cr)             3.8     2.8     3.8      9.2     1.5     3.0         1.0     10.0     2.6

 Cobalt (Co)               7.9     5.6     7.9      10.0    9.3     5.7         5.3     9.8      1.1

 Copper (Cu)               1.5     2.0     2.0      6.8     1.3     3.1         5.5     10.0     1.2

 Gallium (Ga)              NR      10.0    10.0     1.5     9.9     8.5         1.0     10.0     2.9

 Germanium (Ge)            NR      9.5     9.5      3.0     9.4     7.3         2.1     10.0     2.2

 Gold (Au)                 1.0     ND      1.0      2.5     3.3     1.5         10.0    10.0     1.8

 Hafnium (Hf)              NR      3.2     3.2      1.9     10.0    7.5         3.7     10.0     1.2

 Helium (He)               NR      2.8     2.8      5.3     10.0    7.6         5.8     10.0     1.7




33
Candidate material   Global supply risk                       Economic
                                                              vulnerability

                     M     R      PCI     GTC   C     EoLRR   AC     NIR      GVA

Indium (In)          NR    4.8    4.8     1.8   9.8   9.0     1.9    10.0     1.7

Iron (Fe)            1.9   3.6    3.6     2.9   1.0   2.5     7.6    10.0     3.9

Lead (Pb)            2.8   2.5    2.8     2.7   1.5   2.7     4.2    10.2     1.1

Lithium (Li)         2.8   4.6    4.6     5.6   4.3   9.7     4.6    7.7      1.3

Magnesium (Mg)       NR    9.7    9.7     1.0   1.1   5.8     4.4    10.0     2.1

Manganese (Mn)       2.2   1.0    2.2     7.2   1.0   3.3     5.5    10.0     4.2

Molybdenum (Mo)      2.7   2.8    2.8     1.7   6.4   6.1     2.5    10.0     2.2

Nickel (Ni)          2.6   1.8    2.6     8.2   3.0   4.6     6.3    10.0     1.9

Niobium (Nb)         9.6   8.5    9.6     2.4   1.1   9.2     4.8    10.0     3.9

Phosphorus (P)       3.1   6.9    6.9     2.7   1.0   10.0    6.5    9.5      2.5

Potassium (K)        1.9   NR     1.9     2.6   1.0   10.0    6.2    5.6      1.6

REEs                 5.6   8.5    8.5     1.8   6.5   10.0    3.5    10.0     3.1

Rhenium (Re)         3.7   1.9    3.7     2.0   9.6   6.1     1.0    10.0     10.0

Selenium (Se)        NR    1.9    1.9     2.1   9.7   9.1     2.6    10.0     2.3

Silicon (Si)         6.0   6.2    6.2     1.6   1.0   8.6     6.6    9.6      2.0

Silver (Ag)          1.8   ND     1.8     2.5   6.3   5.9     6.4    10.0     1.6

Sodium (Na)          3.5   ND     3.5     1.3   1.0   10.0    5.7    10.0     2.4

Strontium (Sr)       3.6   NR     3.6     2.3   1.0   9.8     1.3    10.0     1.0

Sulphur (S)          1.4   NR     1.4     2.8   9.8   10.0    4.6    10.0     2.8

Tantalum (Ta)        3.8   2.5    3.8     5.8   2.1   8.8     3.3    10.0     1.6



34
Candidate material   Global supply risk                       Economic
                                                              vulnerability

                     M      R     PCI     GTC   C     EoLRR   AC     NIR      GVA

Tellurium (Te)       NR     4.3   4.3     3.7   8.5   6.8     1.9    10.0     2.5

Tin (Sn)             2.6    3.4   3.4     3.9   1.0   7.0     5.7    9.9      2.9

Titanium (Ti)        2.1    3.5   3.5     3.2   5.1   9.1     6.4    9.9      1.4

Tungsten (W)         7.9    ND    7.9     2.8   1.2   7.2     4.6    10.0     1.2

Uranium (U)          2.8    ND    2.8     3.3   1.3   9.4     3.9    10.0     2.8

Vanadium (V)         5.6    3.2   5.6     1.3   8.7   2.4     4.2    10.0     2.4

Zinc (Zn)            1.9    2.5   2.5     3.1   2.3   7.0     6.6    10.0     1.9

Zirconium (Zr)       2.4    2.4   2.4     8.2   9.9   10.0    1.0    10.0     1.5

Platinum (Pt)        6.3    ND    6.3     5.1   2.0   8.4     1.0    10.0     4.7

Rhodium (Rh)         7.8    ND    7.8     3.2   9.7   7.5     1.0    10.0     4.7

Iridium (Ir)         8.3    ND    8.3     3.9   9.8   10.0    1.0    10.0     1.7

Palladium (Pd)       4.1    ND    4.1     2.1   4.7   7.3     1.0    10.0     4.6

Ruthenium (Ru)       10.0   ND    10.0    3.9   9.9   10.0    1.0    10.0     2.6

Barite               2.6    NR    2.6     3.4   1.0   9.4     4.5    5.1      1.8

Bentonite Clay       1.8    NR    1.8     1.2   1.0   7.7     2.2    10.0     1.2

Borates              4.2    NR    4.2     3.9   1.0   8.2     4.4    10.0     2.2

Diamonds             2.2    NR    2.2     4.6   1.0   10.0    4.3    10.0     1.4

Diatomite            2.0    NR    2.0     1.5   1.0   9.6     4.5    10.0     1.3

Feldspar             2.4    NR    2.4     3.5   1.0   9.4     2.7    10.0     1.6

Fluorine             6.1    NR    6.1     1.7   1.0   10.0    4.0    1.0      2.1



35
 Candidate material      Global supply risk                                Economic
                                                                           vulnerability

                         M       R      PCI     GTC     C       EoLRR      AC       NIR    GVA

 Garnet                  3.0     NR     3.0     1.2     1.5     10.0       2.8      10.0   1.0

 Graphite (natural)      5.5     NR     5.5     2.2     1.0     8.5        1.9      10.0   1.8

 Gypsum                  1.0     NR     1.0     1.7     1.0     7.9        5.7      5.0    1.1

 Kaolin clay             1.7     NR     1.7     1.6     1.0     6.6        4.7      1.0    3.2

 Kyanite                 4.0     NR     4.0     1.8     1.0     10.0       3.1      10.0   1.2

 Industrial limestone    6.6     NR     6.6     3.4     1.0     4.7        5.5      1.0    1.9

 Magnesite               5.0     NR     5.0     2.1     1.0     5.3        3.7      10.0   1.8

 Perlite                 2.4     NR     2.4     1.3     1.0     10.0       3.1      10.0   1.5

 Pumice                  2.8     NR     2.8     2.5     1.0     10.0       3.6      10.0   1.7

 Pyrophyllite            2.0     NR     2.0     3.2     1.0     9.3        4.2      10.0   1.2

 Industrial salt         1.5     NR     1.5     2.7     1.0     10.0       6.3      3.1    2.0

 Industrial (silica)
 sand                    2.1     NR     2.1     1.9     1.0     8.6        6.1      1.1    1.9

 Talc                    2.3     NR     2.3     1.4     1.0     5.9        4.5      9.6    3.1

 Vermiculite             2.7     NR     2.7     1.3     1.0     10.0       2.9      10.0   1.4

 Average                 3.1     3.4    3.7     2.8     3.4     6.8        3.4      7.8    1.9




The results presented in Table 9 highlight certain key points for each indicator.

3.1.1        Production concentration indicator
The highest scaled PCI scores are for Ga and Ru at 10.0, reflecting the dominance of China
and South Africa, respectively. The two lowest scores are for Au and gypsum (both 1.0), due to
their highly diversified mining sectors. Industrial minerals average 2.9, whilst metals average a
score of 4.7; this highlights that industrial minerals are typically mined more widely across the
world in contrast to metals, which are generally concentrated in their global supply.


36
Production data between 2018 and 2022 for the top three producing countries (Appendix 3)
clearly underscores the frequency of China as a leading producer, with countries such as the
USA, Australia, South Africa, Brazil, Canada and Turkey prominent for particular commodities.
In particular, where data is available, China appears as a top three producer in 36 of the mining
and 29 of the refining stages.

Other selected examples include:
   • China accounts for 94.9 per cent of refined Ga
   • China accounts for 92.2 per cent of refined Ge
   • Brazil accounts for 90.9 per cent of mined Nb
   • South Africa averages 90.5 per cent, 81.6 per cent, 78.8 per cent, 69.0 per cent and
       35.4 per cent of mined Ru, iridium (Ir), rhodium (Rh), platinum (Pt) and palladium (Pd),
       respectively, reflecting the dominance of South Africa in mine production of the PGEs
   • Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) accounts for 69.1 per cent of mined Co, with
       China accounting for 70.6 per cent of refined Co
   • China accounts for 64.0 per cent of mined REE oxides and 86.8 per cent of refined REE
       oxides
   • Chile accounts for 54.9 per cent of refined Re
   • Australia accounts for 49.4 per cent of mined Li, with China 56.6 per cent of refined Li
   • Australia accounts for 36.5 per cent of mined Fe ore, with China 55.8 per cent of crude
       steel and pig iron supplies

Metals, such as Cu, Au and Ag, and many industrial minerals are so widely mined that no single
country dominates global supply.

3.1.2      Global trade concentration indicator
The GTC indicator provides a representation of the geographical distribution of demand across
the world and has a broad distribution of scores showing the relatively dispersed nature of
global trade. The mean for GTC is 2.8, compared to mining concentration at 3.1, refining
concentration at 3.4 and PCI at 3.7 (for example, antimony (Sb) scores 4.7 for PCI but 1.5 for
GTC). These results demonstrate that global demand for raw materials is widely spread, in
contrast to the concentration of primary supply.

3.1.3      Companionality indicator
The extent to which elements can be considered primary, co- and by-product or by-product only
is shown in Figure 4, developed from CMIC expert knowledge and key studies such as Nassar
et al. (2015) and (Graedel et al., 2022). Of the candidate materials, 31 were quantified using
country production data and assigning mineral deposit types at the country level and 47 were
assessed using global mineral resource studies. This provides a substantial improvement in the
estimates for companionality used in this assessment compared with the previous UK study
(Lusty et al., 2021).

It is worth noting that the higher-scoring elements are commonly by-products recovered only at
smelters or refineries (for example, cadmium (Cd) 9.6; In 9.8; Ga 9.9; Te 8.5; hafnium (Hf)
10.0). These values contrast markedly with those for the major industrial metals that have low
companionality scores (for example, Cu 1.3; Fe 1.0; Sn 1.0; Pb 1.5).




37
Figure 4 Primary, co-/by-product or by-product only status of most elements, based on expert knowledge
of the CMIC team and key studies such as Nassar et al. (2015). BGS © UKRI.



3.1.4       Recycling indicator
Recycling rates for candidate raw materials vary significantly: only 14 per cent, mostly major
and precious metals, have relatively high recycling rates (normalised score less than 5.0);
30 per cent have zero recycling (score 10.0). This may be due to a lack of reporting or the fact
that no recycling occurs. For example, minor metals used in alloys are not recovered during
recycling of those alloys. The remaining 56 per cent of candidate raw materials have recycling
rates between 5.0 and 9.9 on the normalised scale.

3.1.5       UK apparent consumption
The UK AC shows wide variation. Low scores (1.0) are calculated for Cr, Ga, Re, zirconium (Zr)
and PGEs, with many others, including Cd, In and Mo, having scores between 1.9 and 2.5.
More significant consumption is reported for Al, Co, Cu and Fe, with scores in the range 5.3 to
7.6, up to the maximum of 10.0 for Au. The mean value of 3.4 highlights that many candidate
materials are typically modest in their AC.

It is worth noting that a low AC value does not necessarily mean low economic value to the UK.
For example, PGEs are a major export sector for the UK (based almost entirely on secondary
re-processing). In contrast, the high AC value of Au is based on high levels of imports and
exports, together with the role of Au financial trading: AC is £13.7 billion, based on imports of
£43.2 billion and exports of £29.6 billion.

The second highest AC is for Fe at £716.3 million, significantly lower in value than Au but still
very substantial. The UK produced an average of 1000 t of Fe oxides between 2018 and 2022
(Office for National Statistics, 2023), imported 4.2 million t of Fe and produced 5.6 million t of
crude steel (UK Steel, 2024). The steel industry also requires a wide variety of additional
commodities that are incorporated in various alloys and may contribute to the UK AC calculated
for Ni, Mn, Cu, Si, Ti, Co, Mo and tungsten (W) (all used to make different ferroalloys).

The UK currently consumes relatively small quantities of elements more specific to low-carbon
technologies and energy storage systems. Co, a key component in the production of batteries

38
for electric cars and renewable energies, has the highest AC at £38.2 million. Li is also used in
the production of batteries but, due to recent price drops, Li has a significantly lower AC at
£16.2 million. The UK also produced over 72 t of Li in 2021 (Office for National Statistics, 2023).
B, a key component of the permanent magnets used in electric vehicles and wind turbines, has
an AC of £12.9 million. This is high compared to the REEs, another key component of the same
technology, which have an AC of less than £4 million.

All of the PGEs analysed (Ru, Rh, Pd, Ir and Pt) have a highly negative AC, ranging from
-£17.4 million for Ru to -£553.2 million for Pd. Despite having no primary production of the
PGEs, the UK is a net exporter of these commodities. This results from the global circular
economy created by Johnson Matthey, who recover these elements from recycled products and
scrap (Johnson Matthey Plc, 2024b).

3.1.6       UK net import reliance
The UK NIR scores show that the majority (49) of candidate materials have a score of 10.0,
meaning that the UK is 100 per cent dependent on imports. Eight candidate materials have NIR
values in the range 8.0 to 9.9, with seven more between 3.0 and 7.7. Only three candidate
materials score 1.0. These are F (in the form of fluorspar), industrial limestone and kaolin clay,
whilst industrial (silica) sand scores 1.1.

The mining of fluorspar actually ceased in the UK in late 2023, although this was mostly
destined for exports (Bide et al., 2024). This is outside the timeframe of this assessment and
current UK fluorspar needs are met by imports. The current NIR score for fluorspar in 2024 is
therefore 10.0, highlighting the dynamic nature of such aspects of material supply chains.

The kaolin clay sector is based mostly on exports, with about 94 per cent of UK production
exported over the period 2018 to 2022, averaging £121 million per year (Bide et al., 2024).

3.1.7       Gross value added
GVA scores are quite varied, although typically modest with a mean of 1.9. The highest GVA
score of 10.0 is Re, which is used in the high-value aerospace sector. The actual quantities of
Re are small in mass terms (global refinery production averages 58 t per year; Appendix 1).
This demonstrates that small quantities of a particular raw material can have very significant
leveraging effects on economic activity. Similarly, Pt, Pd and Rh score 4.7, 4.6 and 4.7,
respectively, despite no UK mine production, highlighting the role of secondary processing.


3.2        Synthesising the criticality plot
In order to develop the final criticality plot, weighting factors were applied to each indicator to
reflect their relative importance in criticality (Section 2.10). Application of these weighting factors
to the normalised indicator scores allows the global supply risk (S), UK economic vulnerability
(V) and criticality score (CS) to be calculated for each candidate raw material (Figure 3 and
Table 10). Based on stakeholder engagement and feedback, a criticality threshold or isocritical
contour of 4.0 was adopted. A small number of candidate raw materials cannot be assessed
due to the absence of sufficiently reliable data for the metrics employed in the analysis (Section
2.13.3).

The criticality plot (Figure 5) shows 34 of the 82 candidate raw materials have a criticality score
equal to or greater than 4. Many of these are commonly listed as critical minerals in other
national and regional assessments, for example Li, REEs, Ga, Ge, W, Pt and Pd (Josso et al.
(2023). With the exception of Pd, the 18 critical minerals classified in the previous UK criticality
assessment (Lusty et al., 2021) retain the same status in this assessment, despite the
methodological changes implemented. Now scoring 3.9, just below the criticality threshold, the
downgrade of Pd likely results from its much lower production concentration score, with a more

39
diversified supply across Russia (41.7 per cent), South Africa (35.4 per cent) and Canada
(7.35 per cent) compared to other PGEs (for example, South Africa produces 69.0 per cent of
global Pt mine supply). It should be noted that this study covers the period 2018 to 2022, with
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine starting in early 2022. International sanctions against Russia do
not currently include Pd, although Russian Pd supply is now more difficult to obtain, highlighting
that the global supply risk for Pd would be greater now (November 2024).

This is believed to be the first national CA to rate Fe as a critical mineral. Previous studies by
the EU, USA and others have not listed iron as critical (see Josso et al. (2023). The criticality
score for Fe is 5.1, which is identical to Li, Sb and borates. The UK economic vulnerability for
Fe is high because of its very significant economic importance, being used in the construction,
automotive, aerospace and other manufacturing sectors. Although global supply risk is lower,
the use of isocritical contours places Fe above the criticality threshold of 4.0. It should be noted
that the EU assessment plotted Fe in a similar position (low supply risk, high economic
vulnerability) but, due to their use of the linear thresholds, Fe fell outside the critical quadrant.
The inclusion of Fe highlights that criticality is not just about modern technology but also about
materials fundamental to a broad range of economic sectors such as construction, automotive,
aerospace and other consumer-oriented industries.

Many candidate materials have criticality scores between 3 and 4 (for example, Cu, beryllium
(Be), U, Ag, Cr, S, Cd, Sr, garnet, selenium (Se), pumice, He, Pb and vermiculite). It is
important to note that these values are based on the data synthesised for this study, which
reflects the period 2018 to 2022. There are many varied factors that could affect the future
classification of these materials, such as changing production concentrations, technological
evolution, policy adoption and national security considerations. Some of these issues are
explored in the following discussion (Section 4). It is also significant to note that some of the
lowest-scoring materials are those where the UK is a significant producer or exporter, such as
kaolin clay, gypsum and palladium. This highlights the importance of domestic production in
achieving secure supply of raw materials.



Table 10 Normalised scores for the global supply risk (S), economic vulnerability (V) and criticality score
(CS) score. Thirty-four candidate materials classified as critical are listed together with those identified in
the previous 2021 UK Criticality Assessment (Lusty et al., 2021).


 Candidate material          S           V          CS          2024 CA             2021 CA

 Aluminium (Al)              3.5         5.2        4.2         Critical            Not assessed

 Antimony (Sb)               4.2         4.8        4.5         Critical            Critical

 Arsenic (As)                4.4         3.5        3.9         Non-critical        Not assessed

 Beryllium (Be)              3.5         5.2        4.2         Non-critical        Non-critical

 Bismuth (Bi)                4.2         4.8        4.5         Critical            Critical

 Cadmium (Cd)                2.8         3.7        3.2         Non-critical        Not assessed

 Chromium (Cr)               3.7         3.4        3.6         Non-critical        Not assessed



40
Candidate material   S     V     CS    2024 CA        2021 CA

Cobalt (Co)          8.1   5.1   6.4   Critical       Critical

Copper (Cu)          2.2   5.3   3.4   Non-critical   Not assessed

Gallium (Ga)         8.2   3.5   5.3   Critical       Critical

Germanium (Ge)       8.3   4.2   6     Critical       Non-critical

Gold (Au)            1.3   7.1   3     Non-critical   Not assessed

Hafnium (Hf)         3.5   4.6   4     Critical       Not assessed

Helium (He)          4     6.9   5.3   Critical       Not assessed

Indium (In)          4.8   3.9   4.3   Critical       Critical

Iron (Fe)            3     7.5   4.8   Critical       Not assessed

Lead (Pb)            2.6   4.8   3.6   Non-critical   Not assessed

Lithium (Li)         4.8   4.5   4.7   Critical       Critical

Magnesium (Mg)       6     5.5   5.8   Critical       Critical

Manganese (Mn)       2.4   6.8   4     Critical       Non-critical

Molybdenum (Mo)      3     4.6   3.7   Non-critical   Non-critical

Nickel (Ni)          3     6.1   4.3   Critical       Non-critical

Niobium (Nb)         6.7   6.4   6.6   Critical       Critical

Phosphorus (P)       5.3   6.4   5.8   Critical       Not assessed

Potassium (K)        2     4.5   3     Non-critical   Not assessed

REEs                 7.2   5.5   6.2   Critical       Critical

Rhenium (Re)         3.9   4.5   4.2   Critical       Non-critical

Selenium (Se)        2.4   4.6   3.3   Non-critical   Not assessed

Silicon (Si)         4.6   6.1   5.3   Critical       Critical


41
Candidate material   S     V     CS    2024 CA        2021 CA

Silver (Ag)          2.2   5.9   3.6   Non-critical   Not assessed

Sodium (Na)          3     6.2   4.3   Critical       Not assessed

Strontium (Sr)       3.2   3.1   3.1   Non-critical   Non-critical

Sulphur (S)          2.1   5.9   3.5   Non-critical   Not assessed

Tantalum (Ta)        3.9   4.7   4.3   Critical       Critical

Tellurium (Te)       4.6   4.2   4.4   Critical       Critical

Tin (Sn)             3.2   6.4   4.5   Critical       Critical

Titanium (Ti)        3.8   5.7   4.7   Critical       Not assessed

Tungsten (W)         5.9   5     5.4   Critical       Critical

Uranium (U)          2.8   5.5   3.9   Non-critical   Not assessed

Vanadium (V)         4.8   5.5   5.2   Critical       Critical

Zinc (Zn)            2.7   6.2   4     Critical       Not assessed

Zirconium (Zr)       3.4   3     3.2   Non-critical   Not assessed

Platinum (Pt)        5.6   3.8   4.6   Critical       Critical

Rhodium (Rh)         7.3   3.8   5.3   Critical       Not assessed

Iridium (Ir)         7.9   3.1   5     Critical       Not assessed

Palladium (Pd)       4     3.8   3.9   Non-critical   Critical

Ruthenium (Ru)       9.1   3.4   5.6   Critical       Not assessed

Barite               2.6   4     3.2   Non-critical   Not assessed

Bentonite Clay       1.8   3.9   2.6   Non-critical   Not assessed

Borates              3.7   5.5   4.5   Critical       Not assessed

Diamonds             2.4   5.1   3.5   Non-critical   Not assessed


42
 Candidate material         S        V          CS        2024 CA        2021 CA

 Diatomite                  2        5          3.1       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Feldspar                   2.4      4.4        3.3       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Fluorine                   4.6      1.9        2.9       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Garnet                     2.7      4          3.3       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Graphite (natural)         4.3      4          4.1       Critical       Critical

 Gypsum                     1.2      3.9        2.1       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Kaolin clay                1.7      2.2        1.9       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Kyanite                    3.4      4.3        3.8       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Industrial limestone       5        2.1        3.2       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Magnesite                  3.9      5          4.4       Critical       Not assessed

 Perlite                    2.3      4.6        3.2       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Pumice                     2.6      4.9        3.6       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Pyrophyllite               2.1      4.8        3.2       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Industrial salt            1.6      3.6        2.4       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Industrial (silica) sand   2.1      2.2        2.2       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Talc                       2.1      5.9        3.5       Non-critical   Not assessed

 Vermiculite                2.4      4.4        3.3       Non-critical   Not assessed




The 2024 list of critical minerals is shown specifically in Table 11.




43
Table 11 2024 critical minerals list for the UK.


 Critical minerals (34)

 Aluminium (Al)           Helium (He)              Niobium (Nb)               Tantalum (Ta)

 Antimony (Sb)            Indium (In)              Phosphorus (P)             Tellurium (Te)

 Bismuth (Bi)             Iridium (Ir)             Platinum (Pt)              Tin (Sn)

 Borates                  Iron (Fe)                REEs                       Titanium (Ti)

 Cobalt (Co)              Lithium (Li)             Rhenium (Re)               Tungsten (W)

 Gallium (Ga)             Magnesite                Rhodium (Rh)               Vanadium (V)

 Germanium (Ge)           Magnesium (Mg)           Ruthenium (Ru)             Zinc (Zn)

 Graphite (natural)       Manganese (Mn)           Silicon (Si)

 Hafnium (Hf)             Nickel (Ni)              Sodium (Na) (compounds)


The UK 2024 critical minerals list is compared with other worldwide lists in Table 12. The EU
lists 32 critical minerals (this expands to 36 if the PGEs are considered individually) and adds
Cu and Ni, which did not meet the criticality criteria, to their strategic list (European
Commission, 2023). There are 26 individual critical minerals in common between the EU and
UK lists.

The USA also lists 50 critical minerals (noting they split the REEs individually) (U.S. Geological
Survey, 2022b), of which 41 are shared with the UK list. Both Canada (Natural Resources
Canada, 2022) and Australia (Australian Government, 2024) list 35 critical minerals, both
treating the PGEs as a group but expanded here to allow comparison to the UK list. For
comparison with the UK, Australia has 22 critical minerals in common whilst Canada has 26.
This demonstrates that the new UK list is very similar to leading international peers, but there
remain key differences such as Fe, Pd, F and Cr, amongst others. Of these lists, most do not
appear to assess industrial minerals, with the exception of graphite and fluorine (as fluorspar),
although the EU does include borates, feldspar, S and phosphate rock.




44
Figure 5 Criticality plot showing the position of all candidate raw materials (shown as circles: black-filled
circles are reliable data; blue-filled circles are industrial minerals with reliable data; white-filled circles are
low reliability) and the adopted criticality threshold of 4. Thirty-four materials lie above the threshold and
are classified as critical. BGS © UKRI.




45
Table 12 Comparison of the 2024 UK critical minerals with the European Union (EU), USA, Canada and
Australia lists (reference given in square brackets).


 Candidate             UK 2024         EU 2024        USA 2022      Canada        Australia
 material              [this study]    [1]            [2]           2022 [3]      2024 [4]

 Aluminium (Al)        Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      CriticalA

 Antimony (Sb)         Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical

 Arsenic (As)          Non-critical    Critical       Critical      -             Critical

 Beryllium (Be)        Non-critical    Critical       Critical      -             Critical

 Bismuth (Bi)          Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical

 Cadmium (Cd)          Non-critical    Non-critical   -             -             -

 Caesium (Cs)          ID              N/A            Critical      Critical      -

 Chromium (Cr)         Non-critical    Non-critical   Critical      Critical      Critical

 Cobalt (Co)           Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical

 Copper (Cu)           Non-critical    StrategicB     -             Critical      -

 Gallium (Ga)          Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical

 Germanium (Ge)        Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical

 Gold (Au)             Non-critical    Non-critical   -             -             -

 Hafnium (Hf)          Critical        Critical       Critical      -             Critical

 Helium (He)           Critical        Critical       -             Critical      -

 Indium (In)           Critical        Non-critical   Critical      Critical      Critical

 Iron (Fe)             Critical        Non-critical   -             -             -

 Lead (Pb)             Non-critical    Non-critical   -             -             -

 Lithium (Li)          Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical

 Magnesium (Mg)        Critical        Critical       Critical      Critical      Critical



46
Candidate         UK 2024        EU 2024        USA 2022   Canada     Australia
material          [this study]   [1]            [2]        2022 [3]   2024 [4]

Manganese (Mn)    Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Molybdenum (Mo)   Non-critical   Non-critical   -          Critical   Critical

Nickel (Ni)       Critical       StrategicB     Critical   Critical   Critical

Niobium (Nb)      Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Phosphorus (P)    Critical       Critical       -          -          -

Potassium (K)     Non-critical   N/A            -          Critical   -

REEs              Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Rhenium (Re)      Critical       Non-critical   -          -          Critical

Scandium (Sc)     N/A            Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Selenium (Se)     Non-critical   Non-critical   -          -          Critical

Silicon (Si)      Critical       Critical       -          -          Critical

Silver (Ag)       Non-critical   Non-critical   -          -          -

Sodium (Na)       Critical       N/A            -          -          -

Strontium (Sr)    Non-critical   Critical       -          -          -

Sulphur (S)       Non-critical   Non-critical   -          -          -

Tantalum (Ta)     Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Tellurium (Te)    Critical       Non-critical   Critical   Critical   Critical

Tin (Sn)          Critical       Non-critical   Critical   Critical   -

Titanium (Ti)     Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Tungsten (W)      Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Uranium (U)       Non-critical   N/A            -          Critical   -



47
Candidate              UK 2024        EU 2024        USA 2022   Canada     Australia
material               [this study]   [1]            [2]        2022 [3]   2024 [4]

Vanadium (V)           Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Zinc (Zn)              Critical       Non-critical   Critical   Critical   -

Zirconium (Zr)         Non-critical   Non-critical   Critical   -          Critical

Platinum (Pt)          Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Rhodium (Rh)           Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Iridium (Ir)           Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Palladium (Pd)         Non-critical   Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Ruthenium (Ru)         Critical       Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Barite                 Non-critical   N/A            Critical   -          -

Bentonite clay         Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Borates                Critical       Critical       -          -          -

Diamonds               Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Diatomite              Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Feldspar               Non-critical   Critical       -          -          -

Fluorine               Non-critical   Critical       Critical   Critical   Critical

Garnet                 Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Graphite (natural)     Critical       Critical       -          Critical   Critical

Gypsum                 Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Kaolin clay            Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Kyanite                Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -

Industrial limestone   Non-critical   N/A            -          -          -



48
 Candidate                UK 2024          EU 2024         USA 2022         Canada         Australia
 material                 [this study]     [1]             [2]              2022 [3]       2024 [4]

 Magnesite                Critical         N/A             -                -              -

 Perlite                  Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -

 Pumice                   Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -

 Pyrophyllite             Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -

 Industrial salt          Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -

 Industrial (silica)      Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -
 sand

 Talc                     Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -

 Vermiculite              Non-critical     N/A             -                -              -

References: [1] European Union (European Commission, 2023); [2] United States of America (U.S.
Geological Survey, 2022b); [3] Canada (Natural Resources Canada, 2022); [4] Australia (Australian
Government, 2024). ID: insufficient data; N/A: not assessed; -: assessment unknown.

A As high-purity alumina only


B For the EU, Cu and Ni did not meet the criteria for listing as critical minerals but were included in the EU

strategic minerals list




49
4      Discussion and implications for the UK
This CA has adopted a revised set of indicators to estimate the two key dimensions of criticality:
global supply risk and UK economic vulnerability. Lines of equal criticality are depicted by
convex isocritical contours. This allows a more robust identification of those materials that can
be deemed critical.

Several related issues that may affect the future demand and supply of critical minerals require
further discussion, including the effects of future demand changes in the UK from:
    • technological evolution
    • decarbonisation of the electricity grid
    • potential impacts of trade barriers
    • climate change risks to global supply resilience

The role of recycling and development of a more circular UK economy are crucial in ensuring
secure and sustainable supplies in the future. These are key areas of uncertainty and help to
explore the significance of the results of this CA.


4.1        UK policy context
In October 2024, the UK Government launched a consultation process to establish a new
industrial strategy for the UK (HM Goverment, 2024). The primary objective was to develop a
strategy that drives economic growth by taking advantage of the UK’s unique strengths and
untapped potential. In particular, the strategy was envisaged to support eight key sectors:
    • advanced manufacturing
    • clean energy industries
    • defence
    • digital technologies
    • financial services
    • life sciences
    • creative industries
    • professional and business services

It should be noted that critical minerals are fundamental to all these sectors, directly and
indirectly. For example, critical minerals are direct inputs for the first four sectors (Section 4.2),
whilst the latter four sectors make extensive use of digital, energy and related technologies
delivered by the first four sectors: they indirectly rely on the critical minerals used within these
technologies. It is anticipated that the new industrial strategy will be developed and released in
mid-2025 and that resilient supply chains for critical minerals will be a key enabler of the
strategy.

The UK’s commitment to achieving a net zero greenhouse gas emissions economy by 2050 has
led to a wide range of initiatives and policies that are relevant, since they drive demand for
various critical minerals.

The UK Government has invested £200 million as an incentive to decarbonise freight vehicles
and the haulage sector through the Zero Emission HGV and Infrastructure Programme. This
funding will support the deployment of 370 zero-emission trucks and 57 refuelling and electric
charging sites across the country (Department for Transport et al., 2023). Additionally, 955 zero-
emission buses are also expected to be added to the UK fleet, funded through the Zero
Emission Bus Regional Areas (ZEBRA) fund (International Energy Agency, 2024b).

The UK has seen an annual growth of over 15 per cent in the sale of electric vehicles during the
first quarter of 2024, but the 2023 Vehicle Emissions Trading Schemes Order has set a target
that 80 per cent of all car sales should be electric by 2030. This is combined with an expected

50
installation of at least 300 000 public charging sites in the UK by 2030 (International Energy
Agency, 2024b).

Renewable energy contributed to over 51 per cent of electricity produced in the UK in 2023 to
2024 and installed capacity is increasing steadily (Department for Energy Security and Net
Zero, 2024). The new UK Government is also committed to doubling onshore wind energy by
2030 and has removed the development ban that has been in place since 2015 (UK
Government, 2024).

On 30 September 2024, the UK’s last coal-fired power station, located at Ratcliffe-on-Soar in
Nottinghamshire, ceased operation. By-products from coal-fired power stations previously
supplied synthetic gypsum and coal combustion products to the construction industry. Synthetic
gypsum, produced from flue gas desulphurisation, was utilised by plasterboard manufacturers
(Bide et al., 2021). Coal combustion products, primarily used in the construction sector, include
coal fly-ash (also known as pulverised fuel ash or PFA) and furnace bottom ash (FBA) (Bide et
al., 2021). FBA is primarily used as a lightweight aggregate in concrete blocks, although it can
also be used as a lightweight fill and drainage material and a cement clinker additive (Bide et
al., 2021). PFA is primarily used in autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC) blocks, blended cements
and concrete, grouts and stabilisation materials and as a cementitious material (Bide et al.,
2021). Although there remains a significant inventory of historic coal combustion products, the
removal of fresh material from coal-fired power stations means raw material demands will have
to be met in other ways (Section 4.4).

The UK Government is currently working towards a new industrial strategy, a fundamental
component of which will be a critical minerals strategy. As such, it is important that policy
development is aware of the following issues and changes occurring, as observed during the
conduct of this CA.


4.2        Technology-driven raw material demands
This CA’s results represent the current picture of demand and supply risk for the UK based on
data for 2018 to 2022. However, many of the materials evaluated will see global changes in
their future demand as new technologies enter the market and global policy settings evolve,
leading to constant evolution of raw materials demand. For example, grid-scale energy storage
batteries are expected to grow substantially in coming years to help balance the intermittency of
power supply from renewable energy sources, meaning potentially significant growth for V, Li,
and other materials used in such batteries.

To help explore this, we have compiled the principal materials used in selected technologies for
the UK economy (energy, aerospace, defence and electronics) in Table 13. We have then
overlaid the material requirements for some of these technologies on the criticality plot given in
Figure 6. Combined, they show that many technologies will require not only numerous materials
that are already listed as critical, but also many that are not, such as Cu, Ag, Cr, Mo, etc.

Aerospace technologies require specialist alloys, made from various metals, that can withstand
extreme environments, many of which plot high on the UK criticality matrix. For example, Re is
used in rockets and aircraft engines in combination with Ni, Mo or W, allowing the material to
withstand high temperatures and increase engine power and fuel efficiency (Singh et al., 2023).
However, supply of Re is vulnerable as global production is extremely limited (GSR score 3.9),
with annual production of 58 t, the majority as a by-product of Mo and Cu from Chile (Idoine et
al., 2024). Global Re demand is expected to increase in the future, leading to growing supply
risks to which the UK economy is vulnerable. Furthermore, aerospace engine blades are plated
with a platinum-based thermal barrier coating, showing that aviation is also enabled by
platinum.




51
Other materials with an increasing demand from new technologies are in competition with
demand from major established industries. For example, most of the world’s V is used in steel
alloys, commonly in the aerospace industry (90 per cent in 2020) (Graedel et al., 2022).
However, V redox flow batteries have emerged in the last decade as a viable stationary energy
storage solution to compensate for the weather-dependent supply from renewable energies and
support peak electricity demand (Rodby et al., 2023). At the same time, V mine supply is highly
concentrated in China (62 per cent). Increased deployment of V redox flow batteries would lead
to an increased competition for V between energy storage systems and the steel industry,
increasing the pressure on the already vulnerable V supply (GSR score 4.8). Further detailed
research and analysis are required to better understand the supply chains of energy storage
systems and to predict future global and UK demand for embedded materials, including V.

The fast-evolving digital transformation of our society requires a wide range of specialised
materials in increasing quantities. Specific electronic properties are needed to power data
transfer networks, data centres and mobile electronic devices. Microchips need semiconductor
materials, such as Si and Ga, microcapacitors on integrated circuits require Ta, whilst mobile
device screens and displays require In, Sn and other materials (Kumar et al., 2025;
Marscheider-Weidemann et al., 2021). Most of these materials have a high criticality score in
this UK assessment and are also deemed critical by the European Union and the USA
(European Commission, 2023; U.S. Geological Survey, 2022b).

The recent rise of artificial intelligence, which depends heavily on large data centres, has
accelerated the need for more of these critical minerals to accommodate the increasing global
demand for such technologies. It is crucial to improve our knowledge of the material supply
chains in the digital sector since high-purity forms of some needed materials are only available
from a few sources. For example, Si metal is produced in over 30 countries, but only three of
these can produce the high-purity polysilicon used for high-performance microchips, with more
than 90 per cent of production in China (Idoine et al., 2024; International Energy Agency, 2022).

A growing digital technology is quantum computing, which has highly specialised material
requirements including high chemical and isotopic purity. Further work is required to assess the
future material demand of the digital industry and to improve our understanding of its material
supply chains and the challenges of supply security for the UK.

The key point is that there are technological changes occurring globally and in the UK that will
require increasing amounts of materials currently plotting below the threshold adopted for this
CA, such as Cu and Se. This underlines the continuing and growing importance of such
materials to the UK economy and societal objectives such as net zero, defence and the digital
transformation.




52
Table 13 Candidate materials and their use in key technologies. Elements in red are used in new
technologies that are currently not widely used; elements in bold are listed as critical in this study. This is
not an exhaustive list and reflects the most widely used current components and subtechnologies and the
most promising future technologies. Compiled from Compound Interest 2014 (Brunning, 2014), European
Union 2023 (European Commission et al. (2023), DERA 2021(Marscheider-Weidemann et al., 2021) and
UK CMIC technology foresight studies (marked with *) (Jackson et al., 2024a; Petavratzi et al., 2024a;
Petavratzi et al., 2024d; Zils, 2024b; Zils, 2024c; Zils, 2024a; Jackson et al., 2024b; Petavratzi et al.,
2024e; Petavratzi et al., 2024b; Petavratzi et al., 2024c).


 Key Technologies         Sub technology/component                  Elements

 Decarbonisation of energy and transport technologies

 Electric vehicle         Li-ion batteries                          Al, graphite, Co, Cu, F, Fe, Li,
 batteries*                                                         Mn, Ni, P, Si

                          Others (Na-ion, solid-state, etc.)        Na, V, Li, Nb, S, Ti

 Energy storage           Redox-flow batteries                      Cu, Fe, S, V
 systems

 Electric vehicle         Permanent magnet motors                   Al, B, Co, Cu, Fe, REE (Dy, Nd,
 traction motors*                                                   Pr, Sm Tb), Si, Sr, Zr

                          Others (alternating current               Al, Cu, Cr, Fe, Mo, Si
                          induction motors; wound rotor
                          synchronous motors, etc.)

 Hydrogen                 Proton exchange membrane                  Al, Au, graphite, Co, Cu, Ir, Pt,
 electrolysers and                                                  Pd, Ru, Ti
 fuel cells*
                          Others (solid oxide, etc.)                Al, Co, Fe, Mn, Ni, Ir, Sr, REE
                                                                    (Ce, Y), Zr

 Photovoltaic cells*      Crystalline silicon cells                 Ag, Bi, In, Sb, Sn, Si, Ga

                          Thin-film cells                           Al, Ag, As, Cd, Cu, B, Bi, F, Ga,
                                                                    Ge, Mo, In, Sb, Se, Sn, Si, Te,
                                                                    Zn

 Wind turbines*           Generator                                 Al, B, Co, Cu, Fe, REE (Dy, Nd,
                                                                    Pr, Sm Tb), Si, Sr, Zr

                          Other components                          Al, Pb, Cr, Fe, Mn, Mo, Nb, Ni,
                                                                    Zn

 Heat pumps*              Compressor; expansion valve;              Al, B, Cu, Fe, REE (Dy, Nd, Pr,
                          condenser/evaporator                      Tb), Zn




53
Key Technologies   Sub technology/component          Elements

Thermoelectric     Thermoelectric generators         Ag, Bi, Ge, Pb, Te
devices

Nuclear energy*    Advanced modular reactors;        Ag, Al, B, Cd, Cr, Fe, REE (Gd),
                   small modular reactors            Mo, Nb, Ni, In, Sn, Si, Ti, U, Zr

National grid      Cables; inverters; transformers   Cu, Al, Fe
infrastructure*

Other emerging technologies

Aerospace and      Steel and super alloys            Al, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ge, Hf, Mn,
defence                                              Mo, Nb, Ni, Nb, Pb, Pt, Re, Ru,
                                                     Ti, Ta, Te, V, W, Zr, (Be, Mg,
                                                     Sc)

Digitisation and   Mobile device batteries           Al, Li, Co, graphite
electronics

                   Microelectronics and chips        Ag, Au, Cu, Ta, Ni, REE (Dy,
                                                     Gd, Nd, Pr, Tb), Si, Ga, As, Pd,
                                                     Ru, Sb, Sn, Pb

                   Screens                           Al, In, Sn, K, REE (Dy, Eu, Gd,
                                                     La, Pr, Tb)




54
Figure 6 Materials required for selected technologies displayed through the CA plot (based on details in
Table 13). BGS © UKRI.




55
4.3         Foresight studies and future UK critical minerals demand
In alignment with the revised CA methodology, CMIC conducted eight foresight studies (due for
release late 2024) that aim to identify the raw material needs for selected decarbonisation
technologies in the UK up to 2050, based on the National Grid future energy scenarios (National
Grid, 2023b). The analysed technologies are:
    • electric vehicle batteries
    • fuel cells
    • electrolysers
    • traction motors
    • wind turbines
    • photovoltaics
    • heat pumps
    • nuclear applications

A synthesis report was also produced and an additional report on Cu and Al for the electrical
grid was also produced (both due for release in late 2024).

The results of these studies give insights into the future development of the demand for
essential materials in these technologies and are expected to be publicly released by CMIC in
late 2024. Whilst we were not able to do this analysis for all candidate materials, the examples
of Cu, Li and selected REEs used in permanent magnets are presented in sections 4.3.1, 4.3.2
and 4.3.3 and compared with current global mine production trends.

The International Energy Agency (IEA) have recently developed new assessments of the
materials required for the energy transition, with a particular focus on electric vehicles and
energy storage batteries. In their Global EV Outlook report for 2018 (International Energy
Agency, 2018), the demand for Co in electric vehicle batteries was projected to grow from about
12 000 t in 2017 to between 71 000 to 393 000 t by 2030, depending on battery chemistry and
policy scenario. By the 2024 report (International Energy Agency, 2024b), it was noted that
lithium iron phosphate (LiFePO4) batteries made up more than 40 per cent of the batteries in
electric vehicle sales, meaning that Co demand was considerably reduced from earlier
assessments. This reinforces the highly dynamic nature of technological evolution, the
uncertainty of predictions in such dynamic contexts (for example, (Drexhage et al., 2017)) and
that future projections need to be interpreted carefully, especially assumptions around important
factors such as battery chemistry, sales trends, etc.

The IEA have recently launched a new annual report, the ‘Global critical minerals outlook’,
which explores the global status of critical minerals for energy technologies (International
Energy Agency, 2024d). In this study, the IEA presents global scenarios for critical minerals
demand based on future evolution of energy and transport technologies.
     •   Stated policies scenario: based on existing policies and strategies and the general
         direction of the energy transition; 50 per cent probability of achieving a 2.4°C extent of
         global warming by 2100
     •   Announced pledges scenario: assumes that governments will implement all policies
         required to meet their respective climate pledges; 50 per cent probability of achieving a
         1.7°C extent of global warming by 2100
     •   Net zero greenhouse gas emissions scenario by 2050: this develops a pathway for the
         energy sector to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and meet the
         United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for energy; 50 per cent probability of
         achieving a 1.5°C extent of global warming by 2100 with limited overshoot

Since the net zero scenario is the most ambitious with respect to global climate goals, it is also
the scenario with the greatest global demand growth for critical minerals. The materials included
are Cu, Li, Ni, Co, graphite and REEs, which are all key to renewable energy and electric


56
vehicle technologies. We combined the IEA scenarios with simple statistical regressions of past
world production in order to explore the way historical patterns of global mine supply contrast
with predicted demand increases for Cu, Li and the four REEs used in permanent magnets
(neodymium (Nd); praseodymium (Pr); terbium (Tb); dysprosium (Dy)).

4.3.1        Copper
Cu is a material that has recently begun to be added to critical minerals lists despite Cu not
meeting the normal thresholds for criticality, such as Australia (Australian Government, 2024)
and the EU (European Commission, 2023). This has largely been driven by concerns about the
ability of the global Cu mining sector to develop new mines in the near future and increase
production (conversion of mineral resources through ore reserves to mine supply (International
Energy Agency, 2024d)). Cu has diverse uses including power and electricity,
telecommunications and digital technologies, as well as chemicals and infrastructure (especially
piping) (Appendix 6).

Given the need to enhance the national electrical grid in the UK to accommodate a higher
proportion of renewable energy, electric vehicle charging capacity and large data centres, we
review the basics of the IEA Cu demand scenarios and what this could mean for the UK. Figure
7 shows historical world Cu mine and refinery production from 1975 to 2022 (noting refinery
production includes secondary Cu scrap), combined with linear regressions from 1994 to 2022
(since this period shows higher growth rates than prior to 1994), which are then projected to
2050 (dashed lines) and the three IEA scenarios for future Cu demand.




Figure 7 Historical world Cu mine (red) and refinery (blue) production (data combined from (Idoine et al.,
2024; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024b; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024a; Mudd and Jowitt, 2018a), including
earlier historical editions), with linear regressions to 2050 (red and blue dashed lines for mine and refined
Cu production, coefficients of correlation or R2 values of 0.98 and 0.99, respectively) and the three
principal IEA scenarios for future copper demand: stated policies (light green); announced pledges
(middle green), and net zero (dark green). BGS © UKRI.




57
It is clear from the data that projections of refined Cu production are likely to meet Cu demand
for the stated policies and announced pledges scenarios, but the net zero scenario requires an
increase in Cu production above that projected of about 12 per cent around 2040 and declining
to 2 per cent by 2050. This does not mean that such demands cannot be met, just that mine
supply needs to grow above recent rates to meet these projected demands. Historically, the
annual growth rate on mined and refined Cu production averaged 2.2 and 2.3 per cent,
respectively, from 1975 to 2022, ranging from a minimum of -5.9 per cent (decrease) to a
maximum of 8.8 per cent (increase; Figure 7). Going back further in history (using the
references cited in Figure 7) shows that maximum growth values for mine production can vary:
     • 10.6 per cent (1904)
     • 29.6 per cent (1916)
     • 36.3 per cent (1937)
     • 9.8 per cent (1969)
     • 8.8 per cent (2013)

(Noting that growth rates in refined Cu were more subdued.)

It should be noted, however, that the confluence of current conditions facing the Cu sector are
different to those faced historically, meaning it is difficult to quantify the growth rates that can be
achieved. Detailed assessment of these conditions is clearly beyond the scope of a CA, which
focuses on recent data to assess global supply risks and not future supply projections.

Given the concerns about the capacity to increase global Cu mine supply, this highlights that
there are significant constraints facing Cu that may increase global supply risk in the near
future. For example, Zambia and DRC have ambitions to substantially increase their Cu
production (Reuters, 2024b; Reuters, 2024a), meaning that as much Cu would be supplied from
this region of the world as from Chile. This would lead to an increase in global supply risk due to
poorer ESG indices for both Zambia and DRC. The AC and GVA values would also increase,
due to greater Cu use in the UK associated with the energy transition, potentially moving Cu
above the current criticality threshold of 4.0. Criticality assessment methodology in general,
however, does not and is not intended to model global supply risks in detail (for example, mine
by mine or country by country). It is simply reasonable to acknowledge that, although Cu
remains below the criticality threshold at present, this may change in the near future.

4.3.2       Lithium
Li production has steadily increased since the mid-twentieth century, mainly to meet demand in
glasses, ceramics, greases and pharmaceuticals. The past 20 years has also seen a substantial
increase in global demand for batteries, particularly for electric vehicles.

The global demand for Li is expected to increase more than tenfold by 2050 to support the net
zero energy transition (International Energy Agency, 2024b). Figure 8 shows historical world Li
mine production from 1975 to 2022, combined with an exponential regression from 1975 to
2022 and a linear regression from 2016 to 2022 (since this period shows higher growth rates
prior to 2016; global market conditions changed due to the rapid rise of electric vehicles), with
both regressions projected to 2050 (dashed lines), the three IEA scenarios for future global
demand and the maximum projected Li demand from the synthesised UK CMIC foresight
studies (Petavratzi et al., 2024a).




58
Figure 8 World historical Li production (red line) (Idoine et al., 2024) and estimated future supply based
on past production growth rates (exponential regression of data from 1975 to 2022 (dashed red line),
coefficient of correlation or R2 of 0.82; linear regression of data from 2016 to 2022 (dotted red line),
coefficient of correlation or R2 of 0.75) and future demand based on three IEA scenarios: existing policies
(light green); policy pledges (middle green), and net zero (dark green) (International Energy Agency,
2024d). The estimated UK annual demand over time (light purple) is also illustrated as the maximum
demand of the four National Grid future energy scenarios (National Grid, 2023a). BGS © UKRI.



Both the historical exponential and linear projection suggest that the current trajectories for
global Li supply would not be able to meet future demand, reaching between 30 and 40 per cent
of the world’s demand by 2050 (depending on the IEA scenario). In the UK, Li demand for
electric vehicle batteries alone is expected to increase thirtyfold up to 2050, when considering
the most extreme scenario. This would represent between two and three per cent of global
demand. Therefore, it is expected that Li will become increasingly critical due to an increasing
gap between supply and demand for the UK and globally. A similar trend is expected for other
major battery raw materials (Co; Mn; Ni; graphite).

As outlined previously, the various UK CMIC foresight studies do not cover all technologies for
which projected material demand to 2050 is expected to grow (for example, V redox flow
batteries; digital and quantum computing). For Li, hypothetical scenarios to assess the impact
on criticality can be explored. If the rapid predicted growth in global and UK Li demand is the
highest across all materials, this would lead to a score of 10.0 on a scale of 1 to 10 as a fourth
indicator in UK economic vulnerability. That is, for this study, Li included an AC of 4.6, a NIR of
7.7 and GVA of 1.3. If we were to add a fourth factor of 10.0 for demand foresight, this would
change the geometric mean of economic vulnerability from 3.6 to 4.6 (without weightings
applied, given that no weighting is available for the demand foresight). The increase in
economic vulnerability score therefore increases overall criticality for Li due to rapid predicted
growth in demand.




59
In the future, assuming the UK developed a complete Li supply chain of its own from mining
through refining to component manufacture and product assembly, this could lead to lower
global supply risks, due to the greater diversity of global mine supply or lower production
concentration, and increased AC, but zero net import reliance. In other words, Li would likely
move both to the left and down in the criticality plot to a position below the criticality threshold.
This would be a welcome development, signifying the achievement of self-sufficiency for the UK
with respect to Li. The ideas presented here suggest possible pathways for the future evolution
of the criticality of Li for the UK.

4.3.3       Rare earth elements
In recent decades the REEs, especially Nd, Pr, Dy and Tb, have become essential to high-
performance permanent magnets used in electrical turbines and drive trains for electric
vehicles. Supply has come to be dominated by China (Section 3.2) in the mining, refining and
manufacturing stages. The IEA has assessed future demand for these four REEs as part of
their new ‘Critical minerals outlook’ series (International Energy Agency, 2024d).

The fraction of Nd, Pr, Dy, Tb constituted 26 per cent of total REE world production in2021 (IEA
citation; Nd, Pr, Dy, Tb production of 78, 000 tonnes in 2021 divided by world REE production of
296, 400 tonnes). Historical production of these REE is plotted assuming that this 26 per cent is
consistent back to 1975. This approach is a general approximation only and is not intended to
be a detailed quantitative assessment. The derived historical Nd+Pr+Dy+Tb production is
shown in Figure 9, including exponential and linear regressions of the historical data (1975 to
2022), projections of these regressions to 2050 and the three IEA demand scenarios.




Figure 9 Approximate world historical Nd+Pr+Dy+Tb production (red line) (data updated from Weng et
al. (2015)) and estimated future supply based on past production growth rates (exponential regression of
data from 1975 to 2022 (dashed red line), coefficient of correlation of R2 0.92) and future demand based
on three IEA scenarios: stated policies (light green line); announced pledges (middle green line), and net
zero (dark green line) (International Energy Agency, 2024d). The estimated UK annual demand over time
(light purple) is also illustrated as the maximum demand of the four National Grid future energy scenarios
(National Grid, 2023a). BGS © UKRI.



60
From this graph, the projected production of Nd+Pr+Dy+Tb is likely to meet all three IEA
scenarios. Whilst this appears to be a positive outcome, it should be noted that most of this
production is from China, which has enacted strict trade measures on REE exports in recent
years (Section 4.5.3). Furthermore, the REEs have amongst the highest global supply risk of all
candidate materials in this assessment. This means that, for the REEs in the UK, the focus
needs to be on securing supply rather than scaling up supply. Continual monitoring and detailed
assessment of global demand and supply of the REEs is required to ensure that future UK
requirements are met.


4.4        Decarbonisation effects on raw material demand
4.4.1       Decarbonisation and the energy transition
Given that numerous raw materials are fundamental to the production of technologies for the
energy transition (for example, Li; REEs) (Wang et al., 2024), there are intrinsic links between
climate change, net zero ambitions and the extraction of these raw materials (Ali et al., 2017;
Depraiter and Goutte, 2023). As such, the mineral demand for clean energy technologies is
anticipated to double by 2030 in a scenario involving current stated policies, or almost triple by
2030 and quadruple by 2040 in scenarios that achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by
2050 (International Energy Agency, 2024d).

Clean energy technologies are the predominant force driving the growth in demand for many
critical minerals. Electric cars are the main source of demand for batteries, with global electric
car sales reaching nearly 14 million in 2023, an increase of 35 per cent from the previous year
that is expected to continue to grow at a similar rate (International Energy Agency, 2024d).

The global shift towards renewable energy is also contributing to the expansion of the critical
minerals market. The growth in demand for electricity is expected to accelerate in the future, as
a result of increased requirements from sectors such as light industry, electric vehicles, cooling,
data centres and artificial intelligence. In response, almost 200 trade measures affecting clean
energy production have been introduced globally since 2020 (International Energy Agency,
2024a). In the UK, from 2009 to 2023, onshore wind capacity has grown from 3,471 MW to
15,418 MW, offshore wind capacity from 951 MW to 14,745 MW and solar photovoltaics from
27 MW to 16,238 MW, respectively (Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, 2024).

Li has seen the greatest rise in demand of all the critical minerals due to the expanding electric
vehicle market. Global demand for Li is forecast to grow threefold by the end of the decade,
90 per cent of which is attributed to batteries for the electric car industry. Electric car sales are
expected to increase battery requirements for Li fivefold by 2030 and fourteenfold by 2050
(International Energy Agency, 2024d).

Changes in battery chemistry will also have a profound effect on material demand. Li-ion
batteries are already moving towards higher Mn chemistries and replacing Co with higher Ni
concentrations, whilst demand for Na-ion batteries is expected to grow. These shifts are
expected to cause a dramatic increase in demand for Ni and Mn, both of which are also used in
the production of renewable energy, such as wind and geothermal. Demand for Co is still
expected to grow but the trend towards low-Co and Co-free battery chemistries in both electric
cars and storage batteries is slowing the speed of that growth. Global demand for graphite in
batteries is expected to at least double by 2030 and, although Si is increasingly being used as a
substitute, it is unlikely to affect this growth in demand in the near future (International Energy
Agency, 2024d).

The global shift toward electric vehicles is expected to cause a drop in demand for some PGEs,
such as Rh and Pd, due to the move away from internal combustion engines in which they are
used in catalytic converters within exhaust pipes for control of noxious emissions. Pt demand
related to decarbonisation is tied to the sale of H-fuel cell vehicles; however, fuel cells have not

61
yet been widely adopted for use in light duty vehicles, therefore future Pt demand remains
uncertain. The implications of this are that all applications that rely on associated by-products
such as Ru and Ir, such as microelectronics, Li-ion batteries, and a variety of medical
applications, will be at risk and need to find alternatives. Electric vehicles and wind turbines
containing REE permanent magnets (Nd-Fe-B magnets) are much more energy efficient than
alternative technologies and lower the requirements for other critical minerals such as Li, Ni and
Co. Consequently, the REE permanent magnet global demand nearly doubled between 2015
and 2023 and is forecast to double again by 2050 (International Energy Agency, 2024d),
although increased recycling of scrap magnets is likely to contribute a secondary supply of
REEs.

The global transition to electric vehicles and renewable energy is also raising demand for Cu
and Al. Cu is used in Li-ion batteries, in wiring in electric vehicles, and in electricity transmission
and distribution networks that connect renewable energy sites to the centres of demand.
Importantly, most of the increase in Cu consumption in the energy grid will come from upgrading
the existing network to sustain higher voltage and transmission capacity rather than additional
length of cabling due to creation of new network sections. Al is also used in cabling and as a
light structural metal in electric vehicles and renewable energy production (International Energy
Agency, 2024d).

4.4.2       The energy transition and industrial minerals
The decarbonisation and net zero transition will not only require metals for sustainable
technologies to generate renewable energy, but also industrial minerals for the chemical and
mineral products used in the UK’s manufacturing sector. Secure supplies of construction
minerals and aggregates will also be essential for housing, national-scale construction projects
and the installation of energy infrastructure. This section describes the effects of
decarbonisation on industrial minerals from three sectors, including the construction, oil and gas
and fertiliser sectors, from forward-looking scenarios.

The closure of the UK’s last coal-fired power station in September 2024 has meant the loss of
synthetic gypsum supply and the supply of furnace bottom ash for lightweight aggregates and
cement clinker uses (Section 4.1). Although there is an estimated 100 million tonnes of coal fly-
ash stockpiled at former coal-fired power stations (United Kingdom Quality Ash Association),
assessment (Alberici et al., 2017) has suggested that:
   • not all coal fly-ash stockpiles in the UK can be utilised due to the tendency for stockpiled
       fly-ash to agglomerate and lose reactivity
   • a decline in supply and production of coal fly-ash from the closure of coal-fired power
       stations will induce two scenarios for meeting fly-ash demand:
            o recover stockpiled fly-ash
            o import from other countries producing fly ash
   • further research is required to assess the quality and end uses of different types of coal
       fly-ash for cement and concrete production, as well as to research alternatives to fly-ash
       and granulated blast furnace slag

Data collected in this CA from UK Trade Info (HM Revenue & Customs, 2024) has shown the
UK has increased imports of alternative raw materials for construction, including pumice and
roasted pyrite (Alp et al., 2009; Oliveira et al., 2012). Based on industry insights and trade data,
it is also understood that the supply of synthetic gypsum has been replaced by imports, whilst
roasted pyrite can be used as a cement iron additive (Alp et al., 2009) or pumice for lightweight
aggregates (Harben, 2002; Presley, 2006). Further study is required to assess the role
‘alternative’ raw materials in construction supply chains in the UK.

The closure of the Ratcliffe-on-Soar coal-fired power station marked a significant step on the
UK’s transition to net zero. In the long term, the UK’s and the world’s transition to net zero will
see substantial reductions in the refining of petroleum and natural gas and, therefore, the


62
production of by-products such as sulphur (S). S is typically converted to sulphuric acid (H2SO4),
which is used in numerous manufacturing processes including the production of phosphorus (P)
fertilisers, non-ferrous ore leaching and pulp and paper production (SCRREEN, 2023a).
However, as the supply of S is anticipated to decrease, the demand for it has been predicted to
increase due to rapid growth in the green economy and intensive agriculture (Maslin et al.,
2022), leading to possible competition between the extraction of metals required for the green
economy and fertiliser production for intensive agriculture to feed an ever-increasing global
population (Grady, 2024a; Maslin et al., 2022). This competition could be eased by researching
economically viable alternatives for H2SO4 or adopting different reagents for fertiliser production
and ore extraction (Grady, 2024b).

The decrease in oil and gas production will also reduce the amount of drilling fluids used and,
consequently, the demand for industrial minerals, such as barite and bentonite, used by the oil
and gas sector (SCRREEN, 2023c; SCRREEN, 2023b).

With a growing UK population and increasing competition for land use for housing, renewable
energy infrastructure, transport and industry, the agricultural sector faces challenges in the
provision of domestic food supply. Climate change effects, including unpredictable weather and
seasonal patterns inducing regional flooding and national droughts, have further affected the
agricultural industry.

Additional challenges faced by the fertiliser industry in the UK include fertiliser use efficiency
and reducing environmental impacts (Barnett and Wentworth, 2024). The high cost of fertilisers
and improvements in agricultural practice have seen a decline in the use of nitrogen (N),
phosphate and potash fertilisers (Barnett and Wentworth, 2024). This CA lists P, typically
derived from phosphate rock, as critical, but not potassium (K) based salts and fertilisers (noting
that the UK has the operating Boulby and developing Woodsmith potash mines, both capable of
providing potash and polyhalite fertilisers).


4.5        Trade regulations and global supply risks
Trade regulations are measures imposed to control the export or import of products, including
critical minerals and associated technologies. Regulations can take various forms, including:
     • export quotas
     • tariffs
     • licensing requirements
     • complete prohibition

Typically, a government or trading bloc impose them to protect domestic industries, manage
domestic supply and demand, or for geopolitical leverage. Trade regulations can disrupt global
supply chains and trade, leading to uncertainty, price increases and reduced availability
(Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2010). Several countries and
trading blocs have imposed trade regulations on raw and processed materials in recent times.
These include China (World Trade Organisation, 2022), the USA’s Inflation Reduction Act (The
White House, 2022) and the European Union (European Union, 2024).

In this CA, we have adopted a case study approach to trade regulations rather than
incorporating trade barriers into the estimation of UK economic vulnerability in a quantitative
way. The available data is highly variable, making it difficult to implement an objective,
quantitative approach to the inclusion of trade barriers (Section 2.13.1). It should be noted that
trade regulations also have the potential to affect the 'global supply risk' factor.

As in Section 2.13.1, this section presents three case studies that demonstrate the effects of
trade regulations on selected critical minerals. A brief outline of the implications of trade
regulations for the UK is also given.


63
4.5.1       Antimony
In August 2024, China introduced export regulations on Sb. Most Sb is used in flame retardants,
Pb-acid batteries and the production of solar photovoltaic (PV) glass (Bedder, 2024b; Home,
2024; Lv et al., 2024). It also has significant application in military ammunition (Home, 2024;
Sadden, 2024) as well as in semiconductors (Baskaran and Schwartz, 2024). The new
regulations, effective from September 2024 (Bedder, 2024b; Lv et al., 2024), do not limit export
quantities but require exporters to apply for additional licences (Argus Media, 2024; Home,
2024). The regulations cover Sb ore, ingots and oxide. They also prohibit the export of Au-Sb
smelting and separation technologies without permission (Baskaran and Schwartz, 2024;
Bedder, 2024b; Lv et al., 2024).

Historically, China has long maintained a leading role in world Sb mine production, shown in
Figure 10. China’s antimony production is derived mainly from primary deposits (Schwarz-
Schampera, 2014a), although China operates a large Sb smelting sector that is supplemented
by imports, giving China an average share of 48 per cent of global mine production and about
63 per cent of Sb smelting-refining in recent years (see Appendix 3). China has also increased
environmental requirements and inspections at smelters in recent years, leading to numerous
sites being shut down and a sharp decline in mine and smelter production (Adnan et al. (2024);
U.S. Geological Survey (2022c).




Figure 10 Historical world Sb mine production (Synthesis by G M Mudd, unpublished. Data sources
combine BGS (Idoine et al., 2024), USGS (U.S. Geological Survey, 2024b; U.S. Geological Survey,
2024a) and (Anonymous, 1942b), including historical editions of these reports). BGS © UKRI.



The regulations target Sb oxides with a purity greater than 99.99 per cent and other high-purity
Sb compounds (99.999 per cent). This threshold suggests they are aimed at high value-added
products and advanced processing technologies (Zhang, 2024). Since China is now a net
importer of Sb ore, the regulations are considered to be more significant for higher-value Sb
products (Bedder, 2024b). However, the measures are still expected to further reduce China's
Sb metal exports, which have been shrinking since 2022 due to tightening concentrate supplies

64
and growing domestic demand. Increased metal supplies from Tajikistan, India and Thailand
have, however, gone some way to providing alternative sources (Argus Media, 2024).

The Sb price reached record highs in 2024, rising from $23.5/kg before the August
announcement to $31.25/kg in October (Argus Media, 2024). However, other supply chain
events also contributed to trade disruption and price increases, including (Bedder, 2024a;
Belda, 2024; Home, 2024):
   • reduced Russian supply
   • re-routing of shipments around the Red Sea
   • conflict in Myanmar
   • declining Chinese exports

With the Sb market forecast to have a shortfall of about 10 000 t before the regulations were
announced (Home, 2024), it is thought to be very likely that global availability will be affected,
with shortfalls possible (Bedder, 2024a; Sadden, 2024).

If all these events affecting Sb were taken into quantitative account, such trade issues would
affect both global supply risk (for example, greater production concentration; less diverse global
trade), UK economic vulnerability (for example, increased prices leading to increased AC), as
well as the potentially increased difficulty of securing Sb materials.

4.5.2        Gallium and germanium
Ga and Ge are essential to numerous industries, most notably semiconductors,
microprocessors, solar PVs and magnets used in renewable technologies (Bedder, 2024a;
Liang and Marsh, 2023; Morris, 2023). Both also have important military applications, including
in radar, high-power lasers and satellites. Ga is produced as a by-product of Al or Zn, while Ge
can be recovered as a by-product from Zn or coal fly-ash. China accounts for about 95 per cent
and 92 per cent of Ga and Ge production, respectively (Appendix 3). Historical world Ga and Ge
production are shown in Figure 11.




Figure 11 Historical world Ga (left) and Ge (right) production (‘unallocated’ is all other countries except
those shown). Data sources combine BGS (Idoine et al., 2024) and USGS (U.S. Geological Survey,
2024b; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024a) data, including historical editions of these reports. BGS © UKRI.



In July 2023, China announced that, from August 2023, special licences were required to export
eight Ga and six Ge products (International Energy Agency, 2024c; Liang and Marsh, 2023; Lv
and Patton, 2023). Exporters are now required to obtain a licence for dual-use items and
technologies (those with civilian and military applications) on a case-by-case basis (Morris,
2023). The regulations have impacted global supply, with exports falling in the months following

65
the imposition of the regulations. Although they returned to ‘normal’ levels by December 2023,
global 2024 exports are set to be lower than in 2022 and 2023 (Pronk, 2024).

Ga and Ge prices have risen since the imposition of the trade regulations, from around $250 to
$265/kg Ga before the announcement, to around $550 to $600/kg in March 2024, stabilising
thereafter (Argus Media, 2024; Pan et al., 2024). Ge metal exports have declined, with an
average of 2216 kg per month between January and May 2024, less than half of that during the
same period in 2023. Ge metal prices have risen from about $1350 to $1400/kg before the
announcement to about $3000/kg in October 2024 (Argus Media, 2024; Pan et al., 2024), whilst
germanium dioxide (GeO2) prices rose from $915/kg to $2150/kg in the same timeframe (Argus
Media, 2024). The imposition of these regulations by China has had a significant effect on the
global availability and prices of Ga and Ge. However, the effect is expected to be more
pronounced for Ga due to its limited production outside China compared to Ge (Asenov, 2023;
Belda et al., 2023).

As with Sb, China’s trade restrictions affected both global supply risk (for example, greater
production concentration; less diverse global trade), UK economic vulnerability (for example,
increased prices leading to increased apparent consumption) as well as the potential increased
difficulty of securing Ga and Ge materials. It should be noted that both Ga and Ge have
amongst the highest scores for global supply risk in this study (beaten only by Ru), meaning
these trade issues make the context even more difficult for these materials.

4.5.3       Rare earth elements
REEs are crucial components in a wide range of technologies, most notably in high-strength
permanent magnets and catalysts used in renewable technologies. They also have significant
military-related applications, such as in communications and weapon systems (Mancheri, 2015;
Mancheri et al., 2019; Merriman, 2023a).

Historical world REE oxide production is given in Figure 12, showing the rise of China’s REE
sector from the 1980s to become the leading global producer by 2000. China now accounts for
64 per cent of global REE production (Appendix 3).

China has placed export quotas and licensing requirements on REEs since 1999. From 2006,
export quotas were reduced significantly, with a deep 70 per cent cut in 2010 (Mancheri, 2015;
Wübbeke, 2013). In addition, a series of other controls were enacted in 2010, including tariffs of
15 to 20 per cent on REE exports and increased tax rates on some REEs, REE oxides (REOs)
and associated products (Godek, 2023).

As a result of this restricted supply and combined with speculative buying, prices reached
record levels, peaking in mid-2011 (Mancheri et al., 2019; Merriman, 2023b) (Figure 14). For
example, neodymium oxide (Nd2O3) rose from $15 208/t in 2009, through $50 635/t in 2010 to
peak at $250 574/t in 2011 before falling to $122 364/t in 2012 and eventually $71 833/t in 2013
(Stormcrow, 2015). In 2013, many short-term REE prices remained 1000 per cent higher than
their 10-year lows (Tyrer and Sykes, 2013). Annual average prices for Dy and Nd indexed to
2005 are shown in Figure 13, showing the clear increase after the 2010 export restrictions.

The 2010 export quotas divided REEs into light, medium and heavy. This led to exporters
favouring the higher-value heavy REEs (Mancheri et al., 2019), restricting the availability of light
and medium REEs to the market. In 2014, the World Trade Organisation ruled against China’s
system of export tariffs and quotas (Mancheri et al., 2019; Merriman, 2023b). Subsequently, it
was replaced in 2015 by a licencing system for exporters, tariffs and a production quota system
(Mancheri et al., 2019; Merriman, 2023b).




66
Figure 12 Historical world REE oxide production by country. Data updated by G M Mudd from
Weng et al. (2015) using BGS (Idoine et al., 2024) and USGS (U.S. Geological Survey, 2024b; U.S.
Geological Survey, 2024a) data, including historical editions of these reports, and
(Anonymous, 1942a)). BGS © UKRI.




Figure 13 Average annual prices for Dy and Nd indexed to 2005. Data from USGS (U.S. Geological
Survey, 2024b; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024a). Note: average annual prices do not show price changes
at monthly or shorter time scales. BGS © UKRI.


More recently, China banned the export of REE refining and magnet manufacturing
technologies in 2023, whilst new regulations on REE mining, smelting and trading came into
effect in October 2024. Chinese REE resources became state-owned and REE mining, smelting
and separation and export now need to use a system, developed and monitored by the
government, to record the flow of REE products (Baskaran, 2024; Merriman, 2024; Woo, 2024).

67
4.5.4       Trade regulations and implications for the UK
Trade regulations can significantly disrupt global critical mineral supply chains and trade,
potentially causing shortages and price volatility. The extent of disruption is highly variable. It is
influenced by many factors, including the nature of the regulations, their timing and duration,
and supply chain resilience (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2010).

Trade disruption creates challenges for downstream operators and industries, which may
struggle to secure sufficient supply or face economic challenges, affecting end-product or
service delivery (Mancheri et al., 2019). Uncertainty may also deter investment and
development. In turn, this can have knock-on effects on both national and international security,
and on economic, development and environmental targets. Furthermore, imbalances in supply
and capacity can shift competitive advantages between companies and nations (Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2010).

However, the challenges imposed by trade regulations can stimulate innovation, for example in
the form of material efficiency or substitution, as well as the development of alternative sources
(Mancheri et al., 2019). In the long term, such innovation can generate more resilient and
diversified supply chains and trade mechanisms.

As the UK is reliant on imports of many raw and processed materials, its economy is vulnerable
to the effects of global trade measures and regulations. Additionally, the UK’s critical mineral
refining and manufacturing capacity being in its nascent stages (platinum group elements being
the exception) potentially heightens this vulnerability. It is noted that trade policy should seek to
minimise the barriers to the flow of such materials across borders.


4.6        UK current and historical mine production and mineral
           resources
The UK has had extensive mining sectors in the past, as well as some key sectors maintaining
production in the present day. For example:
   • Sn, Cu and W were extensively mined in Cornwall and Devon
   • Cu and Fe ore in Wales
   • Fe ore in Oxfordshire and Northern Ireland
   • Au in Scotland and Northern Ireland
   • fluorspar, Pb and Zn across many areas in northern England and Scotland

The commodities being actively mined in the UK in recent years include:
   • Au
   • W
   • kaolin clay
   • K salts (as potash or polyhalite)
   • halite
   • barite
   • industrial (silica) sand
   • fluorspar
   • gypsum
   • a variety of other industrial and construction minerals

There are deposits with resource data adhering to modern industry standards, whilst for many
commodities there are areas of known mineralisation based on historic mining and geological
investigations (Bide et al., 2020b; Deady et al., 2023).

Examples of recent industry reported mineral resources include:
   • South Crofty (Cornish Metals Inc), England: Sn; Cu; Zn

68
     •   Parys Mountain (Anglesey Mining Plc), Wales: Cu; Pb; Zn; Ag; Au
     •   Hemerdon (Tungsten West Plc), England: Sn; W
     •   Curraghinalt (Dalradian Gold), Northern Ireland: Au; Ag; Cu
     •   Cononish (previously Scotgold Resources Plc), Scotland: Au; Ag
     •   Trelavour (Cornish Lithium Plc), England: Li
     •   St Austell (Imerys British Lithium Ltd), England: Li
     •   Redmoor (Strategic Minerals Plc), England: Sn; W; Cu
     •   Cavanacaw (Galantas Gold Corporation), Northern Ireland: Au; Ag; Pb

Examples of historic reports of mineral resources for various deposits include:
   • Arthrath, Littlemill, Muirtack and Rodburn in Scotland: Ni; Cu
   • Yate in England: Sr
   • Coed Y Brenin in Wales: Cu; Mo; Au

With respect to specific commodities, areas with historically assessed mineralisation are known
for (Bide et al., 2020b):
     • barite                                          • Ni
     • Cu                                              • perlite
     • feldspar                                        • phosphate rock
     • fluorspar                                       • Sr
     • Au                                              • Ag
     • gypsum                                          • Sn
     • kaolin clay                                     • talc
     • Pb                                              • W
     • Li                                              • Zn

Metals such as Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn are often hosts to a variety of companion metals, such as
Cd, Sb, In, Te, Ge and others.

Recent reviews by CMIC have shown different areas of the UK are prospective for:
   • Co (Gunn and Deady, 2022b)
   • graphite (Lusty and Goodenough, 2022)
   • Li (Shaw, 2022)
   • Ni (Gunn and Deady, 2022a)
   • Mn (Josso and Lusty, 2023)
   • PGEs (Currie and Elliott, 2024a)
   • REEs (Currie and Elliott, 2024b)

This brief review highlights that there are areas in the UK prospective for potential domestic
mine supply (Deady et al., 2023), but a significant body of further work is required to assess this
potential. Specifically, a range of modern geophysical and geochemical surveys would be
needed, as these facilitate mineral exploration targeting and enhance the chances of
exploration success. Furthermore, many of the regions with known deposits or mineralisation
are located within areas statutorily protected for conservation values or heritage sites, meaning
that mining projects would require detailed investigation and assessment before planning
permissions could be awarded. Significant additional work is also needed to investigate and
address social and community issues and ensure appropriate governance and regulatory
settings.

Recent UK mine production over the period to 2018 to 2022, the status of mineral resources
and historical UK mine production has been compiled in Appendix 8. During this specific period,
the UK produced:
    • K salts (potash; polyhalite)
    • barite
    • gypsum

69
     •   fluorspar
     •   industrial salt
     •   industrial (silica) sand
     •   kaolin clay
     •   minor amounts of
             o Au
             o Ag
             o Sn
             o W
             o talc


4.7          Recycling potential
The extent of recycling for the candidate materials assessed in this study is highly variable,
ranging from zero to a maximum of 95 per cent (Au). The UK imports and exports waste and
scrap flows for a range of materials, derived from related processing and manufacturing
activities. The distinction between secondary material flows and primary production is not
always clear in trade and economic data. Expert judgement has been applied here to ensure
that the CA focused on raw material inputs to the UK economy.

Selected examples of the importance of these activities include:
   • W: the UK is the third largest global exporter of W, which is derived from processing of
       secondary materials given there is no operating W mine at present in the UK
   • PGEs: the UK is one of the world’s largest refiners of PGEs, based entirely on imports
       and subsequent exports of processed products
   • Cu: there is no secondary Cu smelter-refinery in the UK, meaning all Cu scrap is
       exported with refined Cu metal and subsequent products made from the scrap then
       imported
   • Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) has high end-of-life collection rates,
       which are driven by policy, regulations and supportive consumer behaviour; however,
       most of this material is still mostly exported and not processed in the UK
   • Waste and scrap exports: UK and global trade data shows significant quantities of waste
       and scrap derived from many materials are exported from the UK, suggesting that there
       are opportunities to process this material in the UK and retain the stocks here

Another major challenge with recycling, especially waste and scrap flows, is discerning the
relevant metal contents. For example, imported waste and scrap containing PGEs increased
from 3150 t in 2018 to 5772 t in 2022 (Bide et al., 2024), although the metal content of this flow
is not publicly available. In addition, WEEE comprises 14 categories, each with a considerable
variety of products, appliances and technologies. Assigning average metal contents to WEEE
data is therefore extremely difficult.

Overall, the area of recycling needs a greater capacity to synthesise data, monitor material
flows through the economy and explore opportunities to improve the circularity of the UK
economy. Given the fact that recycling can be considered a midstream industry, further
investment into recycling is well placed to support future supply needs for the UK.




70
5      Review of other risks and opportunities
Throughout the conduct of this study, including consultation with stakeholders, a range of risks
and opportunities has come to light, which is worthy of consideration. The examples given are
not exhaustive but provide some illustration of previously unaccounted-for risks and
opportunities for the UK.


5.1        Climate change risks to global supply
Climate change presents significant risks to the supply of critical minerals as well as
opportunities for new technologies driving demand growth for a wide variety of critical minerals.
The dominant focus in research and policy, however, has typically been on the latter: growing
demand for critical minerals has been driven by mitigation technologies. There remains very
sparse research on the impacts of climate change on the areas where critical minerals are
being or could be mined.

The issue of water resource risks due to climate change has been explored by Northey et al.
(2017), highlighting that up to 32 per cent of Cu, Ni and Pb-Zn mineral resources globally are in
areas subject to shifting climates and worsening water balances.

Further research, based on the most recent climate change modelling and assessments, needs
to explore risks such as:
    • flooding: this can potentially affect mine production, for example, Hurricane Helene-
        induced flooding in North Carolina, USA, impacted high-purity silica mines supplying the
        semiconductor industry (Hsu, 2024)
    • water stress: many countries producing critical minerals are already facing high levels of
        water stress, for example Chile or Spain, and countries producing non-critical minerals
        such as Cu, for example Chile, suffer water stress that could cause significant supply
        constraints and disruptions (Kuzma et al., 2023)
    • extreme heat: this can lead to loss of production capacity due to the effect on labour
        productivity, especially safe working conditions
    • extreme storms, including wind: storms can damage infrastructure and lead to loss of
        production

A recent study by PwC (2024) explored the impacts of climate change on key commodities,
including metals, minerals and food, from a low-emissions scenario only. They found that 62 per
cent of each Fe and bauxite (Al ore) and 26 per cent of Zn production are exposed to
significant, high or extreme heat stress, while 74 per cent of each Li and Co and 54 per cent of
Cu production are exposed to significant, high or extreme drought risks. They also note that
some of the countries producing these materials are subject to significant climate change risks,
but that 81 per cent of the world’s Li, 50 per cent of bauxite and 44 per cent of Fe were each
sourced from no more than ten mines within these countries.

The IEA recently included risk assessment of critical minerals in their Global Critical Minerals
Outlook 2024 report, including supply risks (market factors), geopolitical risks, disruption
response potential and climate change risks combined environmental, social and governance
(ESG) risks (International Energy Agency, 2024d). The IEA’s analyses are summarised in Table
14 below, highlighting the broad range of risks faced by key materials but especially the high
climate-related risks.

The area of present and future climate change risks to the supply of raw materials, both critical
and non-critical, needs substantial research to assess supply disruption potential.




71
Table 14 Risks facing key commodities for renewable energy and electric vehicle batteries (from
(International Energy Agency, 2024d), where risks are rated on a 7 point scale with 1 being low, 4
medium and 7 high.


 Material       Supply risk         Geopolitical       Disruption             ESG and
                                    risk               response               climate risk
                                                       potential

 Copper         5/7                 3/7                2/7                    5/7
 (Cu)
                31% shortfall       Relatively         Mature markets,        52% of mines in
                in project          diversified        sizeable               high water stress
                pipeline for        supply             secondary supply       areas
                APS scenario

 Lithium (Li)   6/7                 5/7                6/7                    5/7

                High price          85% refining       3% secondary           50% of mines in
                volatility          by top 3           supply only            high water stress
                                    countries in                              areas
                                    2030

 Nickel (Ni)    2/7                 6/7                5/7                    6/7

                Only 6% of          61% of mining      1% secondary           High carbon
                battery pack        in single          supply only            intensity during
                cost in 2023        country by                                refining
                                    2030

 Cobalt (Co)    4/7                 6/7                3/7                    6/7

                16% shortfall       84% of mining      Growing adoption       Low social and
                in project          in single          of low cobalt          environmental
                pipeline for        country by         battery                performance in
                APS scenario        2030               chemistries            mining

 Graphite       2/7                 7/7                6/7                    6/7
 (natural)
                High demand         10x demand         Limited potential      Low social and
                growth above        outside top        for substitution       environmental
                historical rates    producer in                               performance in
                                    2030                                      mining

 Rare earth     3/7                 6/7                6/7                    5/7
 elements
 (REEs)         High price          77% refining       Poor market price      High carbon
                volatility          by one country     transparency           intensity during
                                    in 2030                                   refining




72
5.2         Other risks and opportunities for the UK
There are numerous risks that could affect the supply of critical and non-critical minerals to the
UK, which require continual monitoring and associated research. These include:
   • Ukraine-Russia war: this could lead to rapid changes in materials required for military
       equipment and technologies (for example, W; specialty alloys; munitions)
   • decarbonisation: this is already leading to significant changes in the markets for some
       materials (for example, gypsum) and can be expected to affect the future supply of
       others (especially S)
   • trade barriers and tariffs: these both remain a fundamental risk to reliable raw material
       supply (critical and non-critical) meaning that, given rising geopolitical tensions globally,
       a more dynamic approach to critical minerals may be required
   • fluorspar: as the UK has not produced fluorspar since 2023, it is likely that the criticality
       of F for the UK will soon change significantly. (It is worth noting that fluorspar, the source
       mineral containing F, is listed as critical by the EU, USA, Canada and Australia, with only
       the EU producing minor quantities of fluorspar.)

At present, a range of opportunities relating to both critical and non-critical minerals are evident
for the UK:
     •   potassium (K) salts: although not listed as critical in this study, the UK is a growing
         producer of K salts, especially of polyhailte, and therefore could meet the some of the
         needs of its trading partners for these materials.
     •   Iron (Fe): The changes currently taking place in the UK Fe and steel sector provide
         opportunities to explore greater circularity, which should specifically address specialty
         steels and alloys and incorporate the need for detailed and accurate material flow data
         to ensure success. This will require substantial efforts to achieve. Future CAs could
         explore the ways that different grades or alloys of steel might be incorporated (for
         example, the US Department of Energy lists electrical-grade steel as critical (U.S.
         Department of Energy, 2023)).
     •   domestic production: the UK has known mineral deposits of Li, Sn, W, Sr and Ni-Co and
         significant potential for the discovery of Cu, Pb, Zn and other deposits. Many by-
         products are potentially associated with these metals, such as Cd, In, Ge and Te. If they
         prove to be economic and meet regulatory and community requirements, these projects
         could help the UK achieve resilient material supply chains as well as potentially provide
         for exports in excess of UK requirements. It is important that planning processes
         safeguard known areas of mineralisation (for example, UK Sr deposits are no longer
         being safeguarded in planning provisions) as well as linking mining to smelting and
         refining stages.
     •   midstream processing: the UK imports a range of materials, including waste and scrap,
         and re-processes them into higher-value materials or products (for example, PGEs).
         This is too complex to evaluate in a CA, but further research to explore specific
         opportunities is justified.




73
6      Recommendations for future UK criticality
       assessments and related research needs
This study has highlighted a number of areas where methodological improvements in CA are
required. It has also identified a wide range of topics that require further study to understand
material supply chains and thus to contribute to maintaining secure and sustainable material
supplies to the UK. We have identified a set of recommendations relating to this and future
criticality assessments, specifically:


6.1        Midstream manufacturing and material flows
The UK has a variety of midstream processing capabilities for some materials (for example,
PGEs; W) but full supply chain analyses are complex and rarely available for the UK context.
We recommend focussing future efforts on investigating and documenting in detail specific
materials, such as REEs, PGEs and W, and their flows through the UK economy. Data
gathering needs should be assessed with respect to adequacy for use in material flows along
supply chains.

Future work is recommended that develops methods to distinguish and quantify primary and
secondary flows in the UK economy, as some economic data does not currently allow for this.
Secondary flows present a substantial opportunity for the UK to capture and retain value,
improving resilience and the circularity of the UK economy. Further work is required to identify
and capture the best opportunities where the UK has existing strengths and can build new
strengths (for example, recycling REE magnets).

The UK requires midstream activities essential to decarbonisation. For example, there is no
secondary Cu smelter-refinery and no production of battery materials, such as cathodes, or
permanent magnets. All opportunities to develop these missing capacities should be explored,
especially to support a modern industrial strategy for the UK.


6.2        Trade barriers and partnerships
There is a requirement for developing a reliable and holistic approach that incorporates trade
barriers and partnerships into the CA for the UK. Whilst various approaches have been adopted
in other CAs (U.S. Geological Survey, 2022b; European Commission, 2023), they do not
incorporate to incorporate all aspects considered necessary for a robust criticality assessment.


6.3        Deep-dive studies
There is a clear requirement for deep-dive studies on particular commodities, especially those
relevant to the UK’s domestic production potential, midstream manufacturing or international
interests (industry and trade). Such studies are essential for developing detailed datasets and a
quantitative understanding of mineral resources, mining, refining, uses by sector or application,
the extent of and opportunities for recycling, ESG issues and other constraints affecting that
commodity as well as for potentially developing global supply scenarios. Given UK strengths
and concerns, we recommend that Cu, Fe, Ta and W be given high priority for such studies.
Other material such as Li, V and Sr should also be considered for similar detailed analyses.

Given the rapid development of quantum computing and the increasing pace of digital
transformation, information and communications technology (ICT) will continue to increase in
importance. As demonstrated in this report, this brings a growing reliance on a wide range of
materials. We hence recommend prioritising deep-dive studies on ICT generally, or for specific
technologies such as quantum computing in the near future.

74
As the proportion of electricity derived from renewable energy sources increases in the UK,
there will be a growing need for energy storage systems. We hence recommend a deep-dive
study on the potential growth of energy storage systems, perhaps with a particular focus on
grid-scale batteries.

All deep-dive studies should include a foresight analysis to project future scenarios of UK
material demand in a global context.


6.4        Domestic production opportunities
Increasing UK domestic production for various raw materials will require better pre-competitive
data that supports the process of mineral exploration through to mine development. Such data
has been shown to lead to significant discoveries as well as economic benefits (for example,
Australia (Deloitte, 2023); Spain (Herrero de Egaña et al., 2020), and Ontario, Canada
(Rainsford, 2019)) yet are currently not widely available in the UK. We recommend undertaking
modern geophysical surveys of the most prospective parts of the UK to improve data
availability, mineral exploration targeting and the chances for new deposit discovery.


6.5        Future methodological issues
Our study has identified the need for developing a methodology that enables a rapid response
in the interim between consecutive criticality assessments; for example, in response to trade-
related or other events that affect the global, regional or local supply of particular materials. We
hence recommend development of a new approach that allows need to extend and complement
this CA until a new, full assessment is completed. Alternatively, it might be possible to simply
update the data for a material and compare any changes to this study (for example, if material X
has trade restrictions placed on it by the leading producer in mid-2025, all data could be
updated to 2024 and compared against the data in this study).

It is also important that further work be completed to investigate the ambiguity found during this
study where secondary processing appears as primary production in economic data. For future
work in this area, clear methods or guidelines must be developed to facilitate accurate
interpretation of trade and economic data for syntheses such as CAs, deep dives, foresights or
related studies.

Future CAs should investigate the treatment of the REEs ideally as individual elements, or at
least as the light vs. heavy distinction, as this is important for key technologies, especially
permanent magnets.

Many candidate materials that have not been deemed critical in this assessment merit
continued close attention, especially those located close to the criticality threshold or with
concerns for future supply reliability, such as Cu, Pd and U. Many factors can affect the future
criticality designation of these materials, whether it be climate change impacts, social issues or
governance challenges. Therefore, continued monitoring of the full 82 candidate materials is
recommended, including their use in the next CA. We recommend that the materials plotting
below the criticality threshold are maintained on a watch list, which maintains close monitoring
and assessment. Further research on additional potential indicators and sensitivity analyses
should be done. This could include ways of dealing with trade barriers, price volatility,
production concentration at the scale of companies, and improvements for the GVA.


6.6        Future criticality assessments and related research
It is recommended that CAs continue to be performed at regular intervals, combining short-term
analyses to respond to urgent issues with long-term strategic thinking. Short-term responses
could assess dynamic changes to a specific material, whilst long-term approaches would

75
assess trends in supply and demand and technological evolution. The next full CA for the UK
should be delivered no later than 2027.

It is noted that, to address the risks identified in CAs, there needs to be a mix of primary supply,
secondary capacity, planning a strong industrial strategy built on a strong critical minerals
foundation and maintaining the expertise to analyse and assess the numerous material supply
chains, technologies and their links to the UK economy. We conclude by highlighting that this
requires ongoing support for criticality-related research, associated data needs (mining and
refining; trade data; economic data; material stocks and flows; etc.) and increasing the amount
of international collaboration.




76
Appendix 1 Datasets used for the ESG score
World Bank: World Governance Index (WGI) (World Bank, 2024)
     •   WGI raw values are a score from -2.5 to 2.5 across 6 individual aspects (where 2.5
         represents great governance, -2.5 worst governance), each of these are normalised to a
         1 to 10 scale, the geometric mean of all 6 aspects then calculated and this value
         inverted so that 1 represents great governance and 10 the worst governance.

United Nations Development Program: Human Development Index (HDI) (United Nations
Development Programme, 2024)
     •   HDI raw values are a score out of 1 (where 1 represents the highest state of
         development, 0 means lowest), these are normalised to a 1 to 10 scale and then
         inverted so that 1 represents the highest state of development and 10 the lowest;

Yale University: Environmental Performance Index (EPI) (Block et al., 2024)
     •   EPI raw values are a score out of 100 (where 100 represents the best environmental
         outcomes, 0 means lowest), these are normalised to a 1 to 10 scale and then inverted
         so that 1 represents the best environmental outcomes and 10 the lowest;

Equation 1 ESG(i) = ∛ (EPI(i) * HDI(i) * WGI(i))




  Country/territory                      Inverted    Inverted    Inverted     ESG
                                         rescaled    rescaled    rescaled     score
                                         WGI         HDI         EPI

  Afghanistan                            8.7          -          6.1          7.3

  Albania                                5.5         2.9         5.8          4.5

  Algeria                                7.0         3.3         7.3          5.5

  American Samoa                         3.8          -           -           3.8

  Andorra                                3.0         2.0          -           2.5

  Angola                                 6.9         4.7         7.3          6.2

  Anguilla                               3.7          -           -           3.7

  Antigua and Barbuda                    4.8         2.6         5.3          4.0

  Argentina                              6.0         2.4         6.3          4.5

  Armenia                                5.9         2.9         5.7          4.6

  Aruba                                  3.5          -           -           3.5

77
 Country/territory      Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                        rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   score
                        WGI        HDI        EPI

 Australia              2.8        1.5        4.6        2.7

 Austria                3.2        1.7        4.0        2.8

 Azerbaijan             6.9        3.2        6.5        5.2

 Bahamas                4.5        2.6        4.9        3.9

 Bahrain                5.6        2.0        6.2        4.1

 Bangladesh             7.1        4.0        7.9        6.1

 Barbados               4.1        2.7        5.2        3.9

 Belarus                7.5        2.8        5.6        4.9

 Belgium                3.4        1.5        4.8        2.9

 Belize                 5.8        3.7        5.5        4.9

 Benin                  6.1        5.5        7.3        6.2

 Bermuda                3.6        -          -          3.6

 Bhutan                 4.6        3.9        6.2        4.8

 Bolivia                6.9        3.7        6.4        5.5

 Bosnia & Herzegovina   6.4        3.0        6.5        5.0

 Botswana               4.4        3.6        5.1        4.3

 Brazil                 6.0        3.2        6.1        4.9

 Brunei                 4.2        2.6        5.9        4.0




78
Country / Territory                 Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                                    rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                                    WGI        HDI        EPI

Burkina Faso                        7.0        -          6.8        6.9

Burundi                             7.8        -          7.3        7.5

Cabo Verde                          -          4.1        6.2        5.0

Cambodia                            6.9        4.6        7.3        6.1

Cameroon                            7.4        4.7        7.3        6.3

Canada                              2.9        1.6        5.5        2.9

Cape Verde                          4.5        -          -          4.5

Cayman Islands                      3.8        -          -          3.8

Central African Republic            8.4        -          6.0        7.1

Chad                                8.0        -          7.5        7.7

Chile                               4.2        2.3        5.8        3.8

China                               6.3        2.9        7.4        5.1

Chinese Taipei                      3.4        -          5.9        4.5

Colombia                            5.9        3.2        6.2        4.9

Comoros                             7.5        4.7        6.2        6.0

Congo                               7.5        4.7        6.4        6.1

Congo, Democratic Republic of the   8.4        5.7        6.7        6.8

Cook Islands                        5.1        -          -          5.1

Costa Rica                          4.5        2.7        5.8        4.2

Côte d'Ivoire                       6.2        5.2        7.0        6.1




79
Country/territory    Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                     rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   score
                     WGI        HDI        EPI

Croatia              4.7        2.1        4.6        3.6

Cuba                 6.6        3.1        5.7        4.9

Cyprus               4.4        1.8        4.8        3.4

Czech Republic       3.7        1.9        4.6        3.2

Denmark              2.4        1.4        3.0        2.2

Djibouti             7.1        5.4        5.7        6.0

Dominica             4.5        3.3        5.4        4.3

Dominican Republic   5.5        3.1        6.2        4.7

East Timor           6.1        4.9        6.8        5.9

Ecuador              6.2        3.1        5.8        4.8

Egypt                6.9        3.4        6.8        5.5

El Salvador          6.3        3.9        6.3        5.4

Equatorial Guinea    7.9        4.2        6.0        5.8

Eritrea              8.6        5.6        7.1        7.0

Estonia              3.2        1.9        4.5        3.0

Eswatini             6.8        4.5        6.0        5.7

Ethiopia             7.4        5.6        7.1        6.7

Fiji                 5.0        3.4        7.2        5.0

Finland              2.5        1.5        3.1        2.3

France               3.7        1.8        4.4        3.1

French Guiana        3.7        -          -          3.7


80
Country / Territory    Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                       rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                       WGI        HDI        EPI

Gabon                  6.8        3.8        5.5        5.2

Gambia                 6.2        5.5        6.7        6.1

Georgia                5.0        2.7        6.5        4.4

Germany                3.1        1.5        4.4        2.7

Ghana                  5.5        4.6        7.5        5.7

Greece                 4.8        2.0        4.9        3.6

Greenland              3.3        -          -          3.3

Grenada                4.6        2.9        5.7        4.2

Guam                   3.8        -          -          3.8

Guinea                 7.3        5.8        7.2        6.7

Guinea-Bissau          7.5        5.7        6.4        6.5

Guyana                 5.9        3.3        6.5        5.0

Haiti                  8.3        5.0        7.7        6.8

Honduras               6.8        4.4        6.7        5.9

Hong Kong SAR, China   3.8        1.4        -          2.3

Hungary                4.8        2.3        5.0        3.8

Iceland                2.9        1.4        4.3        2.6

India                  5.7        4.2        8.3        5.8

Indonesia              5.6        3.6        7.5        5.3

Iran                   7.8        3.0        6.9        5.4




81
Country / Territory         Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                            rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                            WGI        HDI        EPI

Iraq                        8.4        3.9        7.5        6.3

Ireland                     2.9        1.5        4.8        2.7

Israel                      4.7        1.8        5.7        3.6

Italy                       4.5        1.8        4.8        3.4

Jamaica                     5.0        3.6        5.9        4.8

Japan                       3.0        1.7        4.9        2.9

Jersey, Channel Islands     3.2        -          -          3.2

Jordan                      5.7        3.4        6.1        4.9

Kazakhstan                  6.1        2.8        6.3        4.8

Kenya                       6.4        4.6        7.2        6.0

Kiribati                    4.7        4.3        5.6        4.8

Korea, Democratic Peoples   8.6        -          5.8        7.0
Republic of

Korea, Republic of          3.8        1.6        -          2.5

Kosovo                      6.0        -          -          6.0

Kuwait                      5.4        2.4        6.2        4.3

Kyrgyzstan                  7.1        3.7        6.8        5.6

Laos                        7.0        4.4        7.2        6.1

Latvia                      4.0        2.1        4.5        3.4

Lebanon                     7.6        3.5        7.1        5.7

Lesotho                     6.3        5.3        7.1        6.2




82
Country / Territory               Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                                  rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                                  WGI        HDI        EPI

Liberia                           7.0        5.6        7.8        6.7

Libya                             8.8        3.3        -          5.4

Liechtenstein                     2.6        1.5        -          2.0

Lithuania                         3.8        2.1        5.0        3.4

Luxembourg                        2.6        1.7        3.5        2.5

Macao SAR, China                  4.1        -          -          4.1

Madagascar                        6.9        5.6        7.5        6.6

Malawi                            6.3        5.4        6.3        6.0

Malaysia                          4.8        2.7        6.9        4.5

Maldives                          5.8        3.1        6.6        4.9

Mali                              7.9        -          7.4        7.7

Malta                             4.2        1.8        3.2        2.9

Marshall Islands                  4.6        3.4        6.7        4.7

Martinique                        4.1        -          -          4.1

Mauritania                        6.8        5.1        7.5        6.4

Mauritius                         4.1        2.8        6.0        4.1

Mexico                            6.5        3.0        5.9        4.8

Micronesia, Federated States of   4.6        4.3        6.6        5.1




83
Country / Territory   Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                      rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                      WGI        HDI        EPI

Monaco                3.1        -          -          3.1

Mongolia              5.7        3.3        7.3        5.2

Montenegro            5.4        2.4        5.8        4.2

Morocco               6.0        3.7        7.4        5.5

Mozambique            7.1        -          7.1        7.1

Myanmar               8.5        4.5        8.3        6.8

Namibia               5.0        4.5        5.4        5.0

Nauru                 4.8        3.7        -          4.3

Nepal                 6.4        4.6        7.5        6.0

Netherlands           2.8        1.5        4.4        2.6

New Zealand           2.5        1.5        4.9        2.7

Nicaragua             7.4        4.0        6.6        5.8

Niger                 6.8        -          6.6        6.7

Nigeria               7.5        5.1        7.5        6.6

Niue                  4.7        -          -          4.7

North Macedonia       5.4        3.1        5.1        4.4

Norway                2.6        1.3        4.7        2.5

Oman                  5.5        2.6        7.2        4.7

Pakistan              7.3        5.1        7.8        6.6

Palau                 4.1        2.8        -          3.4

Palestine, State of   -          3.6        -          3.6


84
Country / Territory     Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                        rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                        WGI        HDI        EPI

Panama                  5.6        2.6        5.5        4.3

Papua New Guinea        6.5        4.9        7.8        6.3

Paraguay                6.3        3.4        6.3        5.1

Peru                    6.1        3.1        6.4        5.0

Philippines             6.0        3.6        7.4        5.4

Poland                  4.6        2.1        5.4        3.7

Portugal                3.8        2.1        5.5        3.5

Puerto Rico             5.0        -          -          5.0

Qatar                   4.6        2.1        7.0        4.1

Réunion                 4.3        -          -          4.3

Romania                 5.0        2.6        5.0        4.0

Russia                  7.4        2.6        6.6        5.0

Rwanda                  5.5        5.1        7.0        5.8

Samoa                   4.5        3.7        6.7        4.8

San Marino              3.2        2.2        -          2.7

São Tomé and Principe   6.0        4.5        5.2        5.2

Saudi Arabia            5.8        2.1        6.6        4.3

Senegal                 5.7        5.3        6.9        6.0

Serbia                  5.7        2.8        6.0        4.6

Seychelles              4.2        2.8        5.0        3.9

Sierra Leone            6.7        -          7.1        6.9


85
Country / Territory              Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                                 rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                                 WGI        HDI        EPI

Singapore                        2.8        1.5        5.4        2.8

Slovakia                         4.5        2.3        4.6        3.6

Slovenia                         3.9        1.7        3.9        3.0

Solomon Islands                  5.9        4.9        6.9        5.8

Somalia                          9.2        -          -          9.2

South Africa                     5.7        3.5        6.7        5.1

South Sudan                      9.2        -          -          9.2

Spain                            4.2        1.8        4.9        3.3

St. Kitts and Nevis              4.4        2.5        -          3.3

St. Lucia                        4.5        3.5        5.6        4.4

St. Vincent and the Grenadines   4.3        3.1        5.2        4.1

Sudan                            8.4        5.4        7.5        7.0

Suriname                         6.0        3.8        5.9        5.1

Sweden                           2.7        1.4        3.5        2.4

Switzerland                      2.5        1.3        4.1        2.3

Syria                            9.1        5.0        -          6.7

Tajikistan                       7.7        3.9        6.7        5.8

Tanzania                         6.3        5.2        6.9        6.1

Thailand                         5.9        2.8        6.6        4.7

Togo                             6.7        5.1        6.9        6.2




86
Country / Territory        Inverted   Inverted   Inverted   ESG
                           rescaled   rescaled   rescaled   Score
                           WGI        HDI        EPI

Trinidad & Tobago          5.4        2.7        5.7        4.4

Tunisia                    6.1        3.4        6.3        5.1

Turkey                     6.5        2.3        7.6        4.9

Turkmenistan               8.2        3.3        6.7        5.6

Tuvalu                     4.6        4.1        -          4.3

Uganda                     6.8        5.1        6.8        6.1

Ukraine                    7.0        3.4        5.5        5.1

United Arab Emirates       4.6        1.6        5.3        3.4

United Kingdom             3.3        1.5        3.0        2.5

United States of America   3.8        1.7        5.4        3.2

Uruguay                    3.6        2.5        6.6        3.9

Uzbekistan                 6.8        3.5        6.6        5.4

Vanuatu                    5.2        4.5        6.7        5.4

Venezuela                  8.7        3.7        5.8        5.7

Vietnam                    6.2        3.5        8.2        5.6

Virgin Islands (U.S.)      4.3        -          -          4.3

West Bank and Gaza         7.2        -          -          7.2

Yemen, Republic of         9.1        -          -          9.1

Zambia                     6.2        4.9        6.5        5.8

Zimbabwe                   7.7        5.1        5.8        6.1




87
Appendix 2 Data quality
     •   Green: complete, up-to-date, reliable (for example, all five years of data; data consistent and certain)
     •   Amber: partially useable (for example, data for a single year only; some inconsistencies or uncertainties in data or metal contents)
     •   Red: unreliable or not available (for example, no data; high uncertainty)


 Commodity             Mine               Refined             Global trade       Companion       Recycling      UK apparent       UK net        Gross value
                       production         production          concentration      ality           rates          consumption       import        added
                       concentration      concentration                                                                           reliance

 Aluminium (Al)

 Antimony (Sb)

 Arsenic (As)

 Beryllium (Be)

 Bismuth (Bi)

 Cadmium (Cd)          Not relevant

 Caesium (CS)

 Graphite (natural)                       Not relevant

 Chromium (Cr)



88
 Commodity        Mine            Refined         Global trade    Companion   Recycling   UK apparent   UK net     Gross value
                  production      production      concentration   ality       rates       consumption   import     added
                  concentration   concentration                                                         reliance

 Copper (Cu)

 Gallium (Ga)

 Germanium (Ge)   Not relevant

 Gold (Au)

 Hafnium (Hf)     Not relevant

 Helium (He)      Not relevant

 Hydrogen (H)                                                                 Not
                                                                              relevant

 Indium (In)      Not relevant

 Iridium (Ir)

 Iron (Fe)

 Lead (Pb)

 Lithium (Li)


89
 Commodity        Mine            Refined         Global trade    Companion   Recycling   UK apparent   UK net     Gross value
                  production      production      concentration   ality       rates       consumption   import     added
                  concentration   concentration                                                         reliance

 Manganese (Mn)

 Mercury (Hg)

 Molybdenum
 (Mo)

 Nickel (Ni)

 Niobium (Nb)

 Palladium (Pd)

 Phosphorus (P)

 Platinum (Pt)

 Potassium (K)                    Not relevant

 Rare earth
 elements (REE)

 Rhenium (Re)




90
 Commodity        Mine            Refined         Global trade    Companion   Recycling   UK apparent   UK net     Gross value
                  production      production      concentration   ality       rates       consumption   import     added
                  concentration   concentration                                                         reliance

 Rhodium (Rh)

 Rubidium (Rb)

 Ruthenium (Ru)

 Selenium (Se)    Not relevant

 Silicon (Si)

 Silver (Ag)

 Sodium (Na)                      Not relevant

 Strontium (Sr)                   Not relevant

 Sulphur (S)                      Not relevant

 Tantalum (Ta)

 Tellurium (Te)   Not relevant

 Thallium (Tl)




91
 Commodity        Mine            Refined         Global trade    Companion   Recycling   UK apparent   UK net     Gross value
                  production      production      concentration   ality       rates       consumption   import     added
                  concentration   concentration                                                         reliance

 Thorium (Th)

 Tin (Sn)

 Titanium (Ti)

 Tungsten (W)

 Uranium (U)

 Vanadium (V)

 Zinc (Zn)

 Zirconium (Zr)




92
 Commodity     Mine            Refined         Global Trade    Companion   Recycling   UK apparent   UK net     Gross value
               production      production      concentration   ality       rates       consumption   import     added
               concentration   concentration                                                         reliance

 Barite                        Not relevant

 Bentonite                     Not relevant

 Borates

 Diamonds                      Not relevant

 Diatomite                     Not relevant

 Feldspar                      Not relevant

 Fluorine                      Not relevant

 Garnet                        Not relevant

 Gypsum                        Not relevant

 Kaolin clay                   Not relevant

 Kyanite                       Not relevant

 Industrial                    Not relevant
 limestone


93
 Commodity             Mine            Refined         Global trade    Companion   Recycling   UK apparent   UK net     Gross value
                       production      production      concentration   ality       rates       consumption   import     added
                       concentration   concentration                                                         reliance

 Perlite                               Not relevant

 Pumice                                Not relevant

 Pyrophyllite                          Not relevant

 Industrial salt                       Not relevant

 Industrial (silica)                   Not relevant
 sand

 Talc                                  Not relevant

 Vermiculite                           Not relevant

 Wollastonite                          Not relevant

 Zeolite                               Not relevant




94
Appendix 3 Mining and refining production of each
candidate material showing the top three producing
countries, 2018 to 2022
Data sources: BGS – World Mineral Production (Idoine et al., 2024; SCRREEN, 2023d; U.S.
Geological Survey, 2024b)

Note: the use of ‘Miscellaneous 1’ (or 2 or 3) is where a country is not specifically given a colour
and only appears rarely. For example, Tajikistan contributes 21.1 per cent of global Sb
production but it has no colour specified, meaning for Sb, Tajikistan is represented by the colour
for Miscellaneous 1. In cases where there is more than one country without a specified colour,
Miscellaneous 1 is the largest producer, Miscellaneous 2 the second largest and Miscellaneous
3 the third largest.




95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
Appendix 4 Global trade concentration
Data sources: BGS – World Mineral Production; UN Comtrade

 Material         Country                 Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

 Aluminium (Al)   China                   61.0              3725

                  USA                     4.7               22

                  United Arab Emirates    4.1               17

                                                            3764

 Antimony (Sb)    USA                     22.9              524

                  Netherlands             10.0              99

                  Japan                   9.0               82

                                                            705

 Arsenic (As)     India                   26.9              722

                  USA                     20.4              415

                  New Zealand             5.9               35

                                                            1171

 Barite           USA                     41.7              1738

                  Saudi Arabia            12.2              150

                  Guyana                  5.0               25

                                                            1912




110
Material         Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Bentonite clay   Canada               12.8              163

                 Germany              11.4              129

                 Indonesia            7.9               62

                                                        354

Beryllium (Be)   China                21.9              480

                 India                15.6              243

                 Poland               12.1              147

                                                        870

Bismuth (Bi)     USA                  26.2              687

                 Germany              23.0              530

                 Netherlands          8.8               78

                                                        1295

Borates          China                47.1              2223

                 Germany              4.9               24

                 Korea, Republic of   4.1               17

                                                        2264

Cadmium (Cd)     India                59.1              3494

                 China                15.5              239

                 Belgium              11.9              143

                                                        3876




111
Material        Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Chromium (Cr)   China                76.3              5821

                Indonesia            7.0               49

                Japan                4.0               16

                                                       5886

Cobalt (Co)     China                80.1              6409

                Korea, Republic of   5.3               28

                USA                  2.5               6

                                                       6443

Copper (Cu)     China                64.5              4154

                Japan                5.5               30

                Germany              4.6               21

                                                       4206

Diatomite       Ukraine              19.5              379

                Korea, Republic of   9.9               98

                Thailand             9.9               98

                                                       575

Feldspars       Spain                37.1              1378

                Italy                23.6              558

                Russian Federation   7.1               50

                                                       1986




112
Material       Country       Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Fluorine (F)   Mozambique    17.8              318

               USA           17.7              313

               India         10.1              102

                                               733

Gallium (Ga)   USA           19.8              392

               Malaysia      9.9               97

               Japan         8.8               77

                                               566

Germanium      Malaysia      37.7              1420
(Ge)
               USA           13.8              192

               China         4.9               24

                                               1636

Gold (Au)      India         21.4              457

               China         21.2              450

               Switzerland   19.6              386

                                               1293

Gypsum         USA           19.6              386

               India         17.0              290

               Japan         7.8               61

                                               737




113
Material       Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Hafnium (Hf)   Malaysia             23.0              530

               Japan                14.2              200

               Saudi Arabia         9.7               94

                                                      824

Helium (He)    Philippines          46.7              2181

               South Africa         29.3              860

               Indonesia            11.6              134

                                                      3176

Indium (In)    Malaysia             18.9              358

               India                15.4              236

               Japan                14.0              197

                                                      791

Iridium (Ir)   Japan                33.5              1121

               USA                  24.2              587

               China                23.2              540

                                                      2248

Iron (Fe)      Japan                32.0              1025

               Korea, Republic of   20.5              420

               Germany              10.6              113

                                                      1558




114
Material       Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Kaolin clay    Spain                22.1              488

               Italy                10.3              107

               Japan                6.4               41

                                                      635

Kyanite        Germany              20.8              431

               China                15.0              225

               Spain                10.1              102

                                                      757

Lead (Pb)      China                31.5              990

               USA                  17.6              310

               Vietnam              8.6               74

                                                      1375

Industrial     India                42.1              1769
limestone
               Germany              8.8               77

               China                7.5               56

                                                      1901

Lithium (Li)   Korea, Republic of   47.2              2231

               Japan                33.7              1135

               USA                  3.4               12

                                                      3378




115
Material     Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Magnesite    Indonesia            24.1              582

             Japan                18.3              336

             India                8.7               76

                                                    994

Magnesium    Canada               11.9              142
(Mg)
             Malaysia             7.4               54

             France               5.8               34

                                                    230

Manganese    China                66.9              4478
(Mn)
             USA                  4.4               19

             Japan                3.7               13

                                                    4511

Molybdenum   Japan                19.9              397
(Mo)
             China                12.8              164

             Korea, Republic of   11.1              123

                                                    683

Natural      Thailand             49.2              2423
diamonds
             Spain                12.4              155

             India                12.3              152

                                                    2730




116
Material         Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Natural          Dominican Republic   29.6              874
graphite
                 Japan                11.5              133

                 India                8.8               77

                                                        1084

Nickel (Ni)      China                71.6              5126

                 Japan                7.0               49

                 USA                  4.0               16

                                                        5191

Niobium (Nb)     China                32.1              1033

                 Thailand             10.6              112

                 USA                  8.4               71

                                                        1215

Palladium (Pd)   China                25.6              656

                 Germany              15.4              237

                 Japan                11.2              125

                                                        1018

Perlite          USA                  14.2              202

                 Korea, Republic of   12.7              163

                 Zimbabwe             9.1               83

                                                        448




117
Material        Country                Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Phosphorus      India                  34.3              1176
(P)
                Brazil                 14.9              221

                Pakistan               4.2               18

                                                         1416

Platinum (Pt)   Belgium                50.9              2591

                Japan                  20.2              409

                USA                    7.3               53

                                                         3053

Potassium (K)   Brazil                 22.5              508

                USA                    21.0              440

                China                  19.5              381

                                                         1330

Pumice          China                  22.8              520

                United Kingdom         20.9              437

                USA                    17.2              295

                                                         1252

Pyrophyllite    Italy                  36.7              1350

                Belgium                18.4              339

                United Arab Emirates   5.2               27

                                                         1716




118
Material          Country       Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Rare earth        Japan         24.5              603
elements
(REEs)
                  France        10.5              111

                  Italy         7.8               62

                                                  775

Rhenium (Re)      Netherlands   19.9              397

                  USA           18.5              341

                  Malaysia      12.2              149

                                                  886

Rhodium (Rh)      USA           27.0              731

                  China         23.1              532

                  Japan         21.6              467

                                                  1730

Ruthenium         Japan         34.9              1217
(Ru)
                  USA           25.3              638

                  China         20.0              400

                                                  2255

Industrial salt   USA           33.4              1117

                  Japan         11.7              137

                  China         10.9              120

                                                  1374




119
Material        Country                Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Selenium (Se)   China                  26.3              690

                India                  13.8              190

                Belgium                9.1               83

                                                         964

Industrial      Canada                 19.9              396
(silica) sand
                United Arab Emirates   18.6              345

                China                  10.9              119

                                                         860

Silicon (Si)    Japan                  19.2              370

                Germany                12.9              168

                USA                    11.3              129

                                                         666

Silver (Ag)     China                  24.8              614

                India                  21.2              450

                USA                    13.8              191

                                                         1256

Sodium (Na)     Mexico                 16.6              276
compounds
                Brazil                 10.1              101

                Vietnam                6.5               43

                                                         419




120
Material         Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Strontium (Sr)   China                26.4              696

                 Japan                17.6              308

                 USA                  12.5              157

                                                        1161

Sulphur (S)      China                29.9              892

                 Morocco              23.4              546

                 Brazil               5.8               33

                                                        1471

Talc             Germany              16.7              278

                 Japan                13.4              181

                 Korea, Republic of   9.0               82

                                                        540

Tantalum (Ta)    Thailand             58.6              3432

                 China                9.5               90

                 Japan                7.3               54

                                                        3576

Tin (Sn)         China                45.3              2048

                 USA                  10.9              119

                 Japan                8.2               67

                                                        2234




121
Material        Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Titanium (Ti)   China                38.7              1497

                USA                  13.9              192

                Germany              9.3               87

                                                       1776

Tungsten (W)    USA                  31.5              993

                Japan                15.8              249

                Germany              14.6              212

                                                       1455

Uranium (U)     China                29.4              864

                Russian Federation   28.3              799

                USA                  11.3              128

                                                       1791

Vanadium (V)    USA                  13.1              172

                Thailand             11.8              138

                Germany              10.0              100

                                                       410

Vermiculite     USA                  14.2              202

                Korea, Republic of   12.7              163

                Zimbabwe             9.1               83

                                                       448




122
Material         Country              Trade share (%)   Modified HHI

Zinc (Zn)        China                39.7              1574

                 Korea, Republic of   8.5               73

                 Germany              8.1               65

                                                        1712

Zirconium (Zr)   China                71.4              5100

                 Spain                7.4               54

                 India                6.3               39

                                                        5194




123
Appendix 5 Companionality and companion metal
fraction estimates for all candidate materials
[EK] Expert commodity knowledge (for example, based on unpublished data and internal
reports; industry knowledge and experience; company discussions, etc.)

P: companion metal fraction calculated by using production data and assigning each country as
primary or co-/by-product status.

MR: companion metal fraction calculated by using global mineral resources studies (reference
cited) to assign primary or co-/by-product status.
      Commodity            Primary Production                      Co-/By-Production
      (references,       Deposit Type     Fraction     Host            Deposit Type           Fraction
        method)                             (%)      Commodity                                  (%)
   Aluminium (Al)       Karstic bauxite      12         -                     -                  -
      [1,EK] P          Lateritic bauxite    88
   Antimony (Sb)          Carbonate          60         Au             Au-Sb vein-type          20
       [2] MR            Replacement                    Pb         Polymetallic base metal      8
                                                                            vein
                                                                     Reduced magmatic           10
                                                                         Hot springs            2
  Arsenic (As) [3,4]    Primary Arsenic      8       Cu / Cu-Au         Various types           92
         MR
  Barytes (BaSO4)          Bedded            98           -            Miscellaneous             2
   [3,4,5,EK] MR         sedimentary,
                       Bedded volcanic,
                         Vein / cavity,
                           Residual
   Bentonite Clay          Primary          100           -                   -                  -
      [5,EK] P
   Beryllium (Be)       Volcanogenic,        80        Li / Ta         LCT pegmatites           20
    [6,7,EK] MR        Carbonate-hosted
                          epithermal
    Bismuth (Bi)       Primary Bismuth       10       Cu, Pb               Skarn                80
   [3,4,8,EK] MR                                                        Epithermal               5
                                                                      Sediment-hosted            5
   Borates (B2O3)       Primary Boron       99.7       K-Na             Potash, salt            0.3
   [3,4,5,EK] MR
   Cadmium (Cd)                -              -      Zn, Pb, Cu   Sediment-hosted, volcanic     100
    [3,4,5,EK] P                                                   massive sulfide, others
      Caesium           LCT pegmatites       2         Li, Ta          LCT pegmatites           98
     [4,EK] MR
   Chromium (Cr)           Stratiform       88.78      PGEs             Stratiform PGE         10.91
   [3,4,5,EK] MR                                       Ni-Co            Ni-Co Laterites        0.31
     Cobalt (Co)        Co-Ni-As (-Au-      1.45        Cu        Stratiform sed-hosted Cu-    69.42
   [3,4,5,EK] MR       Ag) mineralisation                                      Co
                                                        Ni               Ni-Co laterites       17.55
                                                       Ni-Cu      Magmatic Ni-Cu (Co-PGE)      11.58




124
      Commodity             Primary Production                      Co-/By-Production
      (references,         Deposit Type    Fraction      Host           Deposit Type           Fraction
        method)                              (%)      Commodity                                  (%)
      Copper (Cu)           Porphyry        75.08      Zn-Pb-Cu    Volcanogenic massive          3.07
       [9,EK] MR        Sediment-hosted     10.17                          sulfide
                        Iron Oxide Cu-Au     4.68        Ni          Magmatic Sulfide           3.35
                                                      Zn-Pb-Cu             Skarn                1.90
                                                      Zn-Pb-Cu           Epithermal             1.12
                                                       Pb-Zn       Sediment-hosted Pb-Zn        0.52
                                                         Au             Orogenic Au             0.11
 Diamonds [5,EK] P         Kimberlite /      100          -                   -                   -
                        Lamproite pipes,
                             Placer
 Diatomite [5,EK] P          Primary         100          -                    -                  -
 Feldspar [5,EK] P           Primary         100          -                    -                  -
 Fluorine [5,EK] P      Primary Fluorspar    100          -                    -                  -
    Gallium (Ga)                -             -          Al           Bauxite / red muds         95
   [3,4,5,EK] MR                                         Zn           Refinery residues          5
 Garnet [4,EK] MR           Primary           90        Ti-Zr        Heavy mineral sands         10
 Germanium (Ge)                -               -         Zn         Zn-containing deposits       60
   [3,4,5,EK] MR                                        Coal               Coal ash              40
     Gold (Au)             Orogenic,         64.4     Cu-Pb-Zn-   Porphyry, VMS, Epithermal,
 [3,4,5,10,EK] MR       Porphyry, Placer                 Ni         IOCG, miscellaneous:
                        (>70% Au value)                                20-70% Au value          24.1
                                                                        <20% Au value           11.5
      Graphite (C,          Primary          100          -                   -                  -
  natural) [6,EK] P
  Gypsum (CaSO4)            Primary          100          -                   -                   -
         [6,EK] P
     Hafnium (Hf)               -              -         Zr          Heavy mineral sands         100
    [3,4,5,EK] MR
 Helium (He) [5,EK]             -              -        Gas        Petroleum hydrocarbons        100
            MR
 Hydrogen (natural)         no data         no data    no data             no data             no data
         [EK] MR
      Indium (In)               -              -         Zn           Sulfide-based Zn           90
   [3,4,5,11,12,EK]                                    Sn / Cu      Sulfide-based Sn / Cu        10
            MR
        Industrial          Primary          100          -                   -                   -
 Limestone [5,EK] P
     Industrial salt        Primary          100          -                   -                   -
         [5,EK] P
  Industrial (silica)       Primary          100          -                   -                   -
    sand [5,EK] P
       Iridium (Ir)             -              -        PGEs       Stratiform-hosted PGE        90.11
  [5,12,13,EK] MR                                       Ni-Cu     Magmatic sulfide-based Ni-    1.33
                                                                              Cu
                                                         Pt                Placer Pt            8.56
 Iron (Fe) [3,4,5,EK]      Primary Fe        100         -                    -                   -
           P
  Kaolin Clay [5,EK]        Primary          100          -                   -                   -
           P
    Kyanite [5,EK] P        Primary          100          -                    -                  -
       Lead (Pb)        Sediment-hosted     61.78     Cu -Zn-Au        Volcanic-related         4.66
   [3,4,5,15,EK] MR       Epithermal        9.31      Cu -Zn-Au           Porphyry              2.82
                        Volcanic-related    6.68      Cu -Zn-Au             Skarn               2.24
                             Skarn          6.13      Cu -Zn-Au          Epithermal             1.27
                        Mesothermal vein    1.53      Cu -Zn-Au        Sediment-hosted          1.58
                         Miscellaneous      1.52      Cu -Zn-Au         Miscellaneous           0.50



125
      Commodity          Primary Production                      Co-/By-Production
      (references,      Deposit Type    Fraction     Host            Deposit Type           Fraction
        method)                           (%)      Commodity                                  (%)
 Lithium [3,4,5,EK]    LCT pegmatites     55.8       K-Li           Continental brine         44.2
          MR
 Magnesite [5,EK] P        Primary         100         -                    -                  -
  Magnesium (Mg)           Primary          97      Various          Miscellaneous             3
      [5,EK] MR
  Manganese (Mn)          Stratiform       100      Various          Miscellaneous             3
       [5,EK] P
    Mercury (Hg)           Primary          65        Zn                    -                 13
  [3,4,5,16,EK] MR                                    Au                                      9
                                                      Ag                                      4
                                                      Sb                                      4
                                                    non-Fe                                    3
                                                     Gas                                      2
 Molybdenum (Mo)         Porphyry Mo        34        Cu              Porphyry Cu             66
   [3,4,5,EK] MR
     Nickel (Ni)          Ni laterites     54.32     PGEs          Layered intrusive         12.93
 [3,4,5,17,EK] MR         Archaean         6.52     Ni-PGEs         M-UM intrusion           12.22
                           komatiite                   Mn         Seafloor Mn nodules        6.76
                         Proterozoic       1.63        Cu          Sediment-hosted           1.34
                           komatiite                various         Miscellaneous            1.34
                        Miscellaneous       1.44
                          Fe-Ni alloy       0.80
                        Impact-related     0.70
    Niobium (Nb)          Pyrochlore /     97.14      Sn          Artisanal, by-product      2.86
   [2,3,5,EK] MR          Carbonatite
   Palladium (Pd)      Stratiform-hosted   50.57     Ni-Cu     Magmatic sulfide-based Ni-    47.27
  [5,13,14,EK] MR          Placer Pt       0.05                           Cu
                                                     Ni-Cu        Refinery residues          2.11
   Perlite [5,EK] P        Primary         100         -                    -                  -
  Phosphate Rock           Primary         100         -                    -                  -
       [5,EK] P
    Phosphorous            Primary         100         -                    -                  -
      [4,5,EK] P
    Platinum (Pt)      Stratiform-hosted   79.26     Ni-Cu     Magmatic sulfide-based Ni-    17.55
  [5,13,14,EK] MR          Placer Pt       2.55                           Cu
                                                     Ni-Cu        Refinery residues          0.64
  Potassium (K)            Primary         100         -                    -                  -
   [3,4,5,EK] P
 Pumice [5,EK] P           Primary         100         -                    -                  -
 Pyrites [5,EK] MR            -                     various    Base metals (Cu-Pb-Zn-Ni),     100
                                                                          Au
 Pyrophyllite [5,EK]       Primary         100         -                    -                  -
          P
     Rare Earth          Carbonatite       14.08      Fe             Carbonatite             63.99
 Elements (REEs)         Ionic clays       18.84     Ti-Zr        Heavy mineral sands        3.09
   [3,4,5,EK] MR
   Rhenium (Re)                -             -      Cu-Mo           Porphyry Cu-Mo           78.2
 [3,4,5,18,EK] MR                                    Cu        Sed-hosted Stratabound Cu     21.8
   Rhodium (Rh)                -             -      PGEs         Stratiform-hosted PGE       84.95
  [5,13,14,EK] MR                                   Ni-Cu      Magmatic sulfide-based Ni-    14.98
                                                                            Cu
                                                       Pt                Placer Pt           0.07
 Rubidium (Rb) [EK]            -             -      Li-Cs-Ta        LCT pegmatites           100
        MR




126
      Commodity            Primary Production                      Co-/By-Production
      (references,        Deposit Type    Fraction     Host            Deposit Type           Fraction
        method)                             (%)      Commodity                                  (%)
  Ruthenium (Ru)               -             -         PGEs       Stratiform-hosted PGE        94.18
  [5,13,14,EK] MR                                      Ni-Cu     Magmatic sulfide-based Ni-     5.75
                                                                             Cu
                                                        Pt                Placer Pt            0.07
   Selenium (Se)                -             -         Cu               Porphyry             84.54
   [5,19,EK] MR                                         Cu         Sediment-hosted Cu         11.32
                                                        Cu                 Skarn               1.20
                                                        Cu        Volcanic massive sulfide     1.17
                                                        Cu           Iron oxide Cu-Au          0.72
                                                        Cu            Magmatic Ni-Cu           0.72
                                                        Cu              Vein-hosted            0.25
                                                      Various      Minor miscellaneous        0.08%
Silicon (Si) [5,EK] P       Primary          100         -                    -                  -
      Silver (Ag)          Primary Ag       27.46     Pb-Zn             Pb-Zn mines           32.53
    [5,20,EK] MR                                        Cu               Cu mines             24.51
                                                        Au               Au mines             14.95
                                                      Various      Miscellaneous mines         0.55
   Sodium (Na)               Primary        100          -                    -                  -
    [5,21,EK] P
   Strontium (Sr)            Primary        100          -                   -                   -
    [3,4,5,EK] P
  Sulfur (S) [5,EK]      Frasch process     0.61     Petroleum   Refining of hydrocarbons      92.35
         MR                 Sulfur ore      0.08       Pyrite         Pyrite roasting          6.96
   Talc [5,EK] P             Primary        100          -                    -                  -
   Tantalum (Ta)           Pegmatites        78        REE                Granite                5
 [3,4,5,22,EK] MR                                                 Alkaline granite-syenite      12
                                                                          Tin slag               5
   Tellurium (Te)               -             -        NiCu      Magmatic Ni-Cu sulfides       21.35
 [3,4,5,23,EK] MR                                    Cu-Pb-Zn    Volcanic massive sulfides     14.83
                                                        Cu              Porphyry Cu            24.69
                                                      various            Unknown               29.14
                                                        Pb              Pb smelters            10.00
 Thallium (Tl) [EK]             -             -         Zn              Zinc refining           100
         MR
 Thorium (Th) [EK]              -             -        REEs       Possible by-product from      100
         MR                                                            REE refining
 Tin (Sn) [3,4,5,EK]         Primary        100          -                    -                  -
          P
    Titanium (Ti)       Primary ilmenite    47.47      Ti-Zr        Heavy mineral sands        52.53
   [3,4,5,EK] MR
   Tungsten (W)               Skarn          36         Sn             Miscellaneous             5
   [3,4,5,EK] MR          Vein / breccia     35
                           stockwork
                            Porphyry         16
                          Disseminated        5
                          Stratabound         3
    Uranium (U)         Sandstone-hosted    63.22      Cu        Iron-oxide related (IOCG)     6.63
   [3,4,5,EK] MR          Unconformity-     13.15      U-V           Surficial (calcrete)      0.31
                             related        1.21       Au           Au-U Conglomerate          0.32
                          Metasomatite      3.69
                         Volcanic-related   0.41
                             Granite        0.77
                          Metamorphite      0.41
                           Carbonatite      0.01
                          Remediation       10.47
                            Intrusive



127
      Commodity           Primary Production                    Co-/By-Production
      (references,      Deposit Type     Fraction     Host          Deposit Type        Fraction
        method)                            (%)      Commodity                             (%)
   Vanadium (V)        Shale-hosted V /     12        Fe-Ti     Titanomagnetite slags      88
   [3,4,5,EK] MR          Vanadate
 Vermiculite [5,EK]        Primary         100          -                 -                -
          P
 Wollastonite [5,EK]       Primary         100          -                 -                -
          P
  Zeolite [5,EK] P         Primary         100          -                 -                -
      Zinc (Zn)        Sediment-hosted    55.85     Cu -Zn-Au     Volcanic-related       12.08
 [3,4,5,15,EK] MR        Epithermal       6.04      Cu -Zn-Au          Skarn             5.24
                            Skarn         5.92      Cu -Zn-Au    Sediment-hosted         3.02
                       Volcanic-related   5.43      Cu -Zn-Au        Porphyry            2.31
                          Porphyry        0.72      Cu -Zn-Au       Epithermal           1.50
                        Miscellaneous     1.33      Cu -Zn-Au      Miscellaneous         0.55
   Zirconium (Zr)              -            -           Ti      Heavy mineral sands       94
   [3,4,5,EK] MR                                        Ti           Magmatic              6

References

[1] (Binnemans et al., 2015). [2] (Schwarz-Schampera, 2014b). [3] (Nassar et al., 2015). [4]
(Graedel et al., 2022). [5] (Idoine et al., 2024). [6] (Trueman and Sabey, 2014). [7] (Lederer et
al., 2016). [8] (Deady et al., 2022). [9] (Mudd and Jowitt, 2018a). [10] (Mudd and Jowitt, 2018b).
[11] (Lokanc et al., 2015a). [12] (Werner et al., 2017). [13] (Mudd, 2023). [14] (Cowley, 2024).
[15] (Mudd et al., 2017). [16] (United Nations Environment Programme, 2017). [17] (Mudd and
Jowitt, 2022). [18] (Werner et al., 2023). [19] (Stiftner et al., 2024). [20] (The Silver Institute,
various). [21] (U.S. Geological Survey, 2024a) (including historical editions). [22] (Bundesanstalt
für Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe, 2021). [23] (McNulty et al., 2022).




128
Appendix 6 Recycling rates
All recycling information has been compiled from a wide variety of sources. As per the methodology adopted, the data below represents global
end-of-life recycling collection rates (EoLRR), unless otherwise noted. The process used and conceptualisation is explained in Section 2.2.4.




 Symbol/name      Application/end use                  Share of        EoLRR       Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                       end use (%)     (%)

 Aluminium (Al)   Construction                         25              95          (Norsk Hydro,    EoLRR values for most of the sectors are
                                                                                   2021)            based on the BGS in-house estimates and
                                                                                                    from (Aluminium Federation, 2020)
                  Transportation                       23              95

                  Electrical                           12              12

                  Machinery & Equipment                11              75

                  Foil stock                           9               42

                  Packaging                            8               42

                  Consumer durables                    6               75

                  Other uses                           6               75

                  Total                                                71.4




129
Symbol/name     Application/end use                    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                       end use (%)   (%)

Antimony (Sb)   Flame retardants                       50            0       (International   EoLRR for Antimony is manually entered
                                                                             Antimony         due to the absence of openly accessible
                                                                             Association,     data for different sectors. (Dupont et al.,
                Lead-acid batteries                    35            0
                                                                             2024)            2016)

                Plastics (catalysts and stabilizers)   7             0

                Other metallurgical                    6             0

                Glass and ceramics                     1             0

                Other                                  1             0

                Total                                                20

Arsenic (As)    Wood preservation, pesticides          80            0       (U.S.            For new production, closed-loop recycling of
                                                                             Geological       GaAs waste generated during
                                                                             Survey,          semiconductor fabrication may be feasible.
                Semiconductor devices (GaAs)           6             0
                                                                             2024b)           However, we are maintaining it at zero
                                                                                              because there are no reliable sources to
                Metallurgical                          3             0                        back up any figures.

                Batteries                              1             0

                Others                                 10            0

                Total                                                0



130
Symbol/name   Application/end use                  Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                   end use (%)   (%)

Barite        Oil industry                         69            10      (The Barytes     EoLRR values are based on BGS in-house
                                                                         association,     estimates and from (Bleiwas and Miller,
                                                                         2024; Graedel    2015)
              Chemical - electronics, TV screen,   16            0
                                                                         et al., 2022)
              glass, ceramics and medical
              applications (barium meals)

              Fillers - car, rubber and paint      15            0
              industry, radiation shielding

              Total                                              6.9

Bentonite     Metal casting                        30            83      (SRP Minerals,   (Foundary Management & Technology, 2020)
                                                                         2024)

              Iron ore palletisation               20            0

              Cat litter                           15            0

              Drilling mud                         10            10                       Like barite EoLRR as both minerals applied together


              Civil engineering                    10            0

              Refining                             4             0

              Others                               11            0

              Total                                              25.9


131
Symbol/name      Application/end use                  Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)    Comment(s)
                                                      end use (%)   (%)

Beryllium (Be)   Industrial components                25            0       (U.S.
                                                                            Geological
                                                                            Survey,
                 Aerospace & defence                  17            30                   EoLRR value is adopted from (Graedel et
                                                                            2024b)
                                                                                         al., 2022)

                 Automotive electronics               14            0

                 Telecomm. infrastructure             10            0

                 Consumer electronics                 7             0

                 Energy applications                  7             0

                 Semiconductor applications           1             0

                 Other                                19            0

                 Total                                              5.1

Bismuth (Bi)     Chemicals                            62            0       (VERAM,      CRM Alliance reported Bismuth RR <1%.
                                                                            2017)        Bismuth is difficult to recycle since it is
                                                                                         commonly used in dissipative applications
                 Fusible alloys                       28            0
                                                                                         like pigments and medicines.

                 Metallurgical additives and others   10            0

                 Total                                              0


132
Symbol/name   Application/end use               Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)   Comment(s)
                                                end use (%)   (%)

Borate        Insulation                        19            80      (Helvacı,   EoLRR is based on BGS in-house
                                                                      2017)       estimates

              Frit-Glazed ceramics              16            0

              Agriculture                       13            0

              Specialized glass                 11            43                  EoLRR value is based on (Smulian, 2022)

              Industrial/Chemical application   11            0

              TFG Fiberglass Fibers             10            0

              TFT Liquid crystal displays       3             0

              Other                             17            0

              Total                                           19.93




133
Symbol/name    Application/end use                    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                      end use (%)   (%)

Cadmium (Cd)   Jewellery (this application is not     57            0       (International
               authorised in the EU)                                        Cadmium
                                                                            Association,
                                                                            2024b)
               NiCd batteries                         23            75                       (International Cadmium Association, 2024b)

               PVC stabilizers (This application is   8             0
               not authorised in the EU)

               Cd Plating                             4             0

               Technical alloys                       4             0

               Pigment manufacturing                  3             0

               Other (presumably including            1             90                       (International Cadmium Association, 2024b)
               Photovoltaics)

               Total                                                18.15




134
Symbol/name    Application/end use    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                      end use (%)   (%)

Caesium (Cs)   Oil and gas drilling   90            80      BGS in-house   Caesium formate is leased to oil and gas
                                                            estimates      corporations for use as drilling fluid at a loss
                                                                           of 15% to 20%. Therefore, we assumed that
                                                                           80% are reused or recycled.

               Atomic clocks          2             0

               Infrared optics        2             0

               Photoelectric cells    2             0

               Chemical Uses          2             0

               Isotope Applications   1             0

               Other                  1             0

               Total                                72




135
Symbol/name     Application/end use             Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                end use (%)   (%)

Chromium (Cr)   Ferrochrome (stainless steel    80            85      (International   EoLRR value refers to an average of
                products)                                             Chromium         European recycling rate based on
                                                                      Development      (Worldstainless, 2023)
                                                                      Association,
                                                                      2024)
                Superalloys                     15            62                       (Curwick et al., 1980)

                Tanning (leather)               2             0

                Chemicals                       2             0

                Refractory bricks and mortars   1             0

                Total                                         77.3




136
Symbol/name   Application/end use   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)          Comment(s)
                                    end use (%)   (%)

Cobalt (Co)   EV batteries          40            65      (Cobalt            EoLRR value is based on (Cobalt Institute,
                                                          Institute, 2023)   2024)
              Portable batteries    30            65

              Superalloys           9             11

              Hard metals           5             24

              Catalysts             3             11

              Ceramics              3             0

              Others                10            0

              Total                               48.02




137
Symbol/name   Application/end use                   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                    end use (%)   (%)

Copper (Cu)   Power generation, distribution, and   44            90      (International   (EuRIC AISBL, 2020)
              transmission                                                Copper
                                                                          Association,
                                                                          2022)
              Construction                          20            90                       (EuRIC AISBL, 2020)

              Electric appliances                   14            60                       (Baldé et al., 2024)

              Transport                             12            90                       (EuRIC AISBL, 2020)

              Others                                10            0

              Total                                               76.8

Diatomite     Filtration products                   55            4       (U.S.            (SCRREEN, 2023d)
                                                                          Geological
                                                                          Survey,
              Absorbents, fillers, lightweight      44            4                        (SCRREEN, 2023d)
                                                                          2023b)
              aggregates

              Specialized pharmaceutical and        1             0
              biomedical purposes

              Total                                               3.96




138
Symbol/name   Application/end use              Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                               end use (%)   (%)

Feldspar      Construction, bricks and tiles   46            10      (IMA Europe,   BGS in-house estimate based on various
                                                                     2023)          readings and interaction with stakeholders

              Ceramics                         45            0

              Glass                            6             43                     (Smulian, 2022)

              other                            3             0

              Total                                          7.18




139
Symbol/name    Application/end use                  Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)   Comment(s)
                                                    end use (%)   (%)

Fluorine (F)   Steel and iron making                36            0       (SCRREEN,
                                                                          2023d)
               Aluminium making and other           15            0
               metallurgy

               Solid fluoropolymers (cookware       11            0
               coating and cable insulation)

               Fluorochemicals                      11            0

               Refrigeration and air conditioning   9             0

               HF in alkylation process for oil     4             0
               refining

               UF6 in nuclear fuel                  7             0

               Others (cement, ceramics, glass,     7             0
               melting rods, glazes)

               Total                                              0




140
Symbol/name    Application/end use                  Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                                    end use (%)   (%)

Gallium (Ga)   Semiconductors, Integrated           50            0       (Cui et al.,    EoLRR for Gallium is manually entered due
               circuits, field effect transistors                         2016)           to the absence of openly accessible data for
               and(GaAs, GaN, GaP wafers)                                                 different sectors. (Jia et al., 2022)

               LEDs                                 38            0

               Photodetector/solar cell             4             0

               Magnets                              3             0

               Others                               5             0

               Total                                              17

Garnet         Waterjet cutting                     35            0       (U.S.
                                                                          Geological
                                                                          Survey, 2012)
               Abrasive blasting media              30            0

               Water filtration                     20            0

               Abrasive powders                     10            0

               Other                                5             0

               Total                                              0




141
Symbol/name   Application/end use                    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                                     end use (%)   (%)

Germanium     Infrared systems                       30            60      (Patel and     EoLRR value is from (U.S. Geological Survey, 2023a)
(Ge)                                                                       Karamalidis,
                                                                           2021)
              Fiber optics                           20            60                     (U.S. Geological Survey, 2023a)

              Polymer catalysts                      20            0

              Electronics and solar panels           15            0

              Others                                 15            0

              Total                                                30

Gold (Au)     Jewellery                              46            99      (U.S.          (Recyclinginside, 2020)
                                                                           Geological
                                                                           Survey,
              Central banks and other institutions   23            99
                                                                           2024b)

              Physical bars                          16            99

              Official coins and medals and          9             99
              imitation coins

              electrical and electronics             5             20                     (Baldé et al., 2024)

              Others                                 1             50                     BGS in-house estimate

              Total                                                94.56


142
Symbol/name    Application/end use    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)    Comment(s)
                                      end use (%)   (%)

Gypsum         Plasterboard           52            45.9    (Highley,    (SPECFINISH, 2016)
                                                            2006)
               Cement manufacturing   32            0

               Specialist uses        16            0

               Total                                23.87

Hafnium (Hf)   Superalloys            45            62      (Stanford    (Curwick et al., 1980)
                                                            Advanced
                                                            Materials,
               Nuclear control rods   13            0
                                                            2024)

               Plasma cutting tips    13            0

               Optical coatings       11            0

               Catalysts              7             0

               CVD/targets            7             0

               Special steels         3             0

               Electronics            1             0

               Total                                27.9



143
Symbol/name   Application/end use          Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)    Comment(s)
                                           end use (%)   (%)

Helium (He)   MRI scanners                 30            90      (4He         (Simionescu, 2024)
                                                                 resources,
                                                                 2024)
              Science and cryogenic        14            0

              Welding                      12            0

              Balloons                     8             0

              Fiber Optics                 6             0

              Pressurization and purging   6             0

              Electronics                  4             0

              Other                        20            0

              Total                                      27




144
Symbol/name    Application/end use          Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)         Comment(s)
                                            end use (%)   (%)

Indium (In)    Flat panel displays          56            20.3    (Lokanc et al.,   (Baldé et al., 2024)
                                                                  2015b)
               Solders                      10            0


               PV cells                     8             0


               Thermal interface material   6             0


               Batteries                    5             0


               Alloys/compounds             4             0


               Semiconductors and LEDs      3             0


               Other                        8             0


               Total                                      11.37


Iridium (Ir)   Electrochemical              46            0       (Johnson
                                                                  Matthey plc,
                                                                  2024a)
               Electrical & electronics     16            0


               Chemical                     13            0


               Other                        25            0


               Total                                      0


145
Symbol/name   Application/end use                   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                    end use (%)   (%)

Iron (Fe)     Steel production                      98            85      (U.S.            (Worldstainless, 2023)
                                                                          Geological
                                                                          Survey,
              Pure iron and other uses              2             0
                                                                          2024b)

              Total                                               83.3

Kaolin clay   Paper                                 50            76.6    (Bloodworth et   (Department for Environment Food & Rural
                                                                          al., 2009)       Affairs, 2024)

              Ceramic                               30            0

              Fillers in paint, rubber, plastics,   10            0
              adhesives and sealants, and
              pharmaceuticals

              Others includes of animal feed,       10            0
              white cement and glass fibre.

              Total                                               38.3




146
Symbol/name   Application/end use                Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                 end use (%)   (%)

Kyanite       Refractories (iron and steel       70            0       (U.S.
              industries)                                              Geological
                                                                       Survey,
                                                                       2024b)
              Refractories (cement, chemicals,   20            0
              glass, nonferrous metals, and
              other materials)

              Other                              10            0

              Total                                            0

Lead (Pb)     Batteries                          80            95      (International   (International Lead Association, 2024)
                                                                       Lead & Zinc
                                                                       Study Group,
              Rolled & Extruded products         6             60                       (International Lead Association, 2024)
                                                                       2023b)

              Pigments and other compounds       5             0

              Shot & Ammunition                  3             0

              Alloys                             2             60                       (International Lead Association, 2024)

              Others                             4             0

              Total                                            80.8




147
Symbol/name    Application/end use   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                     end use (%)   (%)

Limestone      Construction uses     78            74      (Harrison et    (IMA Europe, 2023)
                                                           al., 2006)
               Cement making         13            10                      BGS in-house estimate

               Industrial uses       8             0

               Agriculture uses      1             0

               Total                               59.02

Lithium (Li)   Batteries             65            5       (Bae and Kim,   (CAS Science Team, 2022)
                                                           2021)
               Ceramic and glass     18            0

               Grease                5             0

               Polymer               3             0

               Casting               3             0

               Others                6             0

               Total                               3.25




148
Symbol/name   Application/end use   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)    Comment(s)
                                    end use (%)   (%)

Magnesite     Steel making          57            76      (SCRREEN,    BGS in-house estimate
                                                          2023d)
              Agriculture           14            0

              Paper                 12            70.6                 (Department for Environment Food & Rural
                                                                       Affairs, 2024)

              Cement                9             0

              Ceramics              5             0

              Other                 3             0

              Total                               51.79

Magnesium     Aluminium alloys      38            76      (European    (International Aluminium, 2024)
(Mg)                                                      Aluminium,
                                                          2021)
              Die castings          36            50                   (International Magnesium Association, 2024)


              Iron & Steel          12            0

              Metal reduction       8             0

              Other                 6             0

              Total                               46.88


149
Symbol/name   Application/end use                     Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                      end use (%)   (%)

Manganese     Steel-all forms                         88            85      (Sun et al.,     (Worldstainless, 2023)
(Mn)                                                                        2020)
              Batteries (cathodes)                    2             8                        (European Parliament Briefing, 2024)

              Other                                   10            0

              Total                                                 74.96

Molybdenum    Molybdenum grade alloy steels &         54            50      (International   (International Molybdenum Association,
(Mo)          irons (constructional steel, tool and                         Molybdenum       2015)
              high-speed steel and cast iron)                               Association,
                                                                            2024)
              Stainless Steels                        25            50                       (International Molybdenum Association,
                                                                                             2015)

              Chemicals                               13            0

              Metallic form                           5             50                       (International Molybdenum Association,
                                                                                             2015)

              Superalloys                             3             62                       (Curwick et al., 1980)

              Total                                                 43.86




150
Symbol/name   Application/end use                       Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                                        end use (%)   (%)

Natural       Industrial use (used to create utensils   80            0       (Real Diamond
diamonds      for cutting and/or abrasive ones)                               Invest, 2024)

              Commercial use (Jewel)                    18            0

              Investment                                2             0

              Total                                                   0

Natural       Batteries                                 52            8       (ECGA, 2022)    (Ciacci et al., 2022)
graphite
              Refractories                              24            50                      (O'Driscoll, 2024)

              Recarburizing                             2             0

              Lubricants                                3             0

              Castings                                  8             0

              Graphite shapes                           1             0

              Friction products                         3             0

              Other                                     7             0

              Total                                                   16.16


151
Symbol/name   Application/end use             Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)          Comment(s)
                                              end use (%)   (%)

Natural       Ammonia production              55            0       (WHA               Data reported here represent Hydrogen
Hydrogen                                                            International      alone, it doesn’t distinguish between natural
                                                                    Inc, 2023)         and artificial
              Petroleum refining              25            0

              Methanol production             10            0

              Other (like renewable energy)   10            0

              Total                                         0

Nickel (Ni)   Stainless steel                 65            85      (Nickel            (Griswold, 2019)
                                                                    Institute, 2021)
              Batteries                       17            16                         (European Parliament Briefing, 2024)

              Non-ferrous alloys              5             33                         EoLRR value is based on aluminium figures as it is
                                                                                       the key element used with nickel for non-ferrous
                                                                                       application. (Bureau of International Recycling, 2024)


              Plating                         5             0

              Alloy steels                    3             0

              Foundry                         2             0

              Others                          3             0

              Total                                         59.62

152
Symbol/name    Application/end use                    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)   Comment(s)
                                                      end use (%)   (%)

Niobium (Nb)   Ferro-niobium: high strength low       83            5       (MSP-       (MSP-REFRAM, 2021)
               alloy steel (structural, automobile,                         REFRAM,
               pipelines, etc.)                                             2021)

               Superalloys                            8             62                  (Curwick et al., 1980)

               Chemicals                              3             0

               Others (superconductors,               6             0
               magnets, etc.)

               Total                                                9.11




153
Symbol/name      Application/end use                  Share of        EoLRR       Source(s)         Comment(s)
                                                      end use (%)     (%)

Palladium (Pd)   Automotive                           84              30          (Johnson          Note: Sector breakdowns of recycling data
                                                                                  Matthey plc,      is referred to only for secondary supply and
                                                                                  2024a)            excludes the closed-looped recycling.
                                                                                                    Johnson Matthey plc will be releasing the
                                                                                                    detailed recycling data in the forthcoming
                                                                                                    whitepaper “Reclaiming the future: PGM
                                                                                                    insights for a circular economy” to be
                                                                                                    published in December. It will be hosted on
                                                                                                    the website here PGM recent publications |
                                                                                                    Johnson Matthey.

                 Chemical                             5               0                             Note: IEA has reported 60% EoLRR for
                                                                                                    Palladium. (International Energy Agency,
                                                                                                    2021)

                 Electrical                           5               88

                 Dental                               2               0

                 Jewellery                            1               11

                 Investment                           1               0

                 Other                                2               0

                 Total                                                29.71

                 Note: Johnson Matthey will be publishing new data to estimate palladium recycling rates after this CA.


154
Symbol/name   Application/end use            Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                             end use (%)   (%)

Perlite       Construction products          47            1       (U.S.           BGS in-house estimate
                                                                   Geological
                                                                   Survey,
              Horticultural aggregate        16            0
                                                                   2024b)

              Filler                         15            0

              Filter acids                   14            0

              Other                          8             0

              Total                                        0.47

Phosphorus    Fertilizer                     82            0       (Marjolein de
(P)                                                                Ridder, 2012)
              Industrial                     8             0

              Animal feed                    7             0

              White Phosphorus derivatives   3             0

              Total                                        0




155
Symbol/name     Application/end use                  Share of        EoLRR       Source(s)         Comment(s)
                                                     end use (%)     (%)

Platinum (Pt)   Automotive                           43              32          (Johnson          Note: IEA has reported 60% EoLRR for
                                                                                 Matthey plc,      Platinum. (International Energy Agency,
                                                                                 2024a)            2021)

                Jewellery                            18              17

                Glass                                9               0

                Chemical                             8               0

                Dental & biomedical                  4               0

                pollution control                    4               18

                Electrical                           3               17

                Petroleum                            2               0

                Other                                9               0

                Total                                                18.05

                Note: Johnson Matthey will be publishing new data to estimate platinum recycling rates after this CA.




156
Symbol/name     Application/end use                    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)          Comment(s)
                                                       end use (%)   (%)

Potassium (K)   Fertilizers                            85            0       (Graedel et al.,
                                                                             2022)
                Chemical and industrial applications   15            0


                Total                                                0


Pumice          Building blocks                        38            1       (U.S.              BGS in-house estimate
                                                                             Geological
                Horticulture & landscaping             38            0       Survey,
                                                                             2022a)
                Concrete aggregate                     15            1                          BGS in-house estimate


                Abrasives & cleaning                   8             0


                Other                                  1             0


                Total                                                0.53


Pyrophyllite    Refractory Industry                    75            10      (Ali et al.,       BGS in-house estimate
                                                                             2021)
                Pesticides                             10            0


                Paints                                 5             0


                Others                                 10            0


                Total                                                7.5


157
Symbol/name   Application/end use                  Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                                   end use (%)   (%)

Rare earth    Magnets                              44.3          0       (Natural
elements                                                                 Resources
(REE)                                                                    Canada, 2023)
              Catalysts                            17.1          0

              Polishing powders                    11.1          0

              Metallurgical additives and others   6.6           0

              Glass                                6.3           0

              Batteries                            2.6           0

              Ceramics                             3.1           0

              Phosphors                            0.5           0

              Pigments                             0.3           0

              Others                               8.1           0

              Total                                              0




158
Symbol/name    Application/end use                  Share of        EoLRR       Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                                    end use (%)     (%)

Rhenium (Re)   Superalloys (Aerospace)              70              62          (Lunk, 2015)     (Curwick et al., 1980)

               Catalysts                            14              0

               Other alloys (industrial gas         13              0
               turbines, thermocouples, etc.)

               Electrical contacts                  2               0

               Others                               1               0

               Total                                                43.4

Rhodium (Rh)   Automotive                           88              32          (Johnson
                                                                                Matthey plc,
                                                                                2024a)
               Chemical                             9               0

               Glass                                1               0

               Electrical                           1               0

               Others                               1               0

               Total                                                28.16

               Note: Johnson Matthey will be publishing new data to estimate rhodium recycling rates after this CA.


159
Symbol/name     Application/end use                   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                                      end use (%)   (%)

Rubidium (Rb)   Atomic clocks that are especially     20            0       BGS in-house
                used only when high-precision                               estimates
                time keeping is required.

                Photocells that are used to convert   20            0
                light energy to electrical energy.

                Medical equipment that are ideal      10            0
                for monitoring ischemia, a
                condition where blood flow is
                obstructed through the main
                coronary arteries

                Vacuum tubes                          10            0

                Special glasses                       10            0

                Fireworks                             10            0

                Ion Engines                           5             0

                Thermoelectric generators             5             0

                Others                                10            0

                Total                                               0




160
Symbol/name   Application/end use                  Share of        EoLRR       Source(s)         Comment(s)
                                                   end use (%)     (%)

Ruthenium     Chemical                             46              0           (Johnson
(Ru)                                                                           Matthey plc,
                                                                               2024a)
              Electrical                           29              0

              Electrochemical                      12              0

              Other                                13              0

              Total                                                0

              Note: Johnson Matthey will be publishing new data to estimate palladium recycling rates after this CA.




161
Symbol/name   Application/end use         Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                          end use (%)   (%)

Salt (NaCl)   Chlorine/sodium hydroxide   39            0       (S&P Global,
                                                                2023) (The
                                                                data from the
              Sodium Carbonate            20            0
                                                                figure were
                                                                extracted with
              De-icing                    12            0       the help of
                                                                PlotDigitizer
              Food                        12            0       tool)


              General Industrial          4             0

              Agriculture                 3             0

              Water softening systems     3             0

              Sodium Chlorate             1             0

              Others                      6             0

              Total                                     0




162
Symbol/name     Application/end use               Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                                  end use (%)   (%)

Selenium (Se)   Metallurgy (including manganese   40            0       (U.S.           EoLRR for Selenium is manually entered
                production)                                             Geological      due to the absence of openly accessible
                                                                        Survey, 2017)   data for different sectors. (Kavlak and
                                                                                        Graedel, 2013)
                Glass manufacturing               25            0

                Agriculture                       10            0

                chemicals and pigments            10            0

                Electronics                       10            0

                Others                            5             0

                Total                                           10

Industrial      Industrial uses                   68            0       (Bide et al.,
(silica) sand                                                           2020a)
                Glass                             27            43                      (Smulian, 2022)

                Foundry and moulding              5             79                      (IMA Europe, 2023)

                Total                                           15.56




163
Symbol/name    Application/end use           Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                             end use (%)   (%)

Silicon (Si)   Aluminium alloys; including   41            33      (BRGM, 2020)   EoLRR value is based on aluminium figures
               foundry, ceramics                                                  as it is the key element used with silicon for
                                                                                  alloys application. (Bureau of International
                                                                                  Recycling, 2024)

               Silicones, silanes            35            0

               Solar applications            18            10                     (Lunardi et al., 2018)

               others                        6             0

               Total                                       15.33




164
Symbol/name   Application/end use        Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)          Comment(s)
                                         end use (%)   (%)

Silver (Ag)   Electrical & electronics   37            15      (The Silver        All the breakdown values for EolRR are
                                                               Institute, 2024)   adopted from (Graedel et al., 2022)

              Bar & coin investment      20            80                         Note: IEA has reported 49.70% EoLRR for
                                                                                  silver (International Energy Agency, 2021)

              Jewellery                  17            80

              Other industrial use       13            55

              Silverware                 5             5

              Brazing alloys             4             80

              Photography                2             5

              Other                      2             5

              Total                                    45.95




165
Symbol/name      Application/end use               Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                                   end use (%)   (%)

Sodium           Chemical Synthesis                72            0       (Persistence
(compounds)                                                              Market
(Na)                                                                     Research,
                 Metal manufacturing & refining    10            0
                                                                         2017;
                                                                         Rajagopal,
                 Pharmaceuticals                   5             0       2021)

                 Other (Nuclear, rubber, and       13            0
                 Battery)

                 Total                                           0

Strontium (Sr)   Drilling fluids                   23            10      (U.S.          BGS in-house estimate
                                                                         Geological
                                                                         Survey,
                 Ceramic ferrite magnets           29            0
                                                                         2024b)

                 Pyrotechnics and signals          29            0

                 Electrolytic production of zinc   5             0

                 Master alloys                     5             0

                 Pigments and fillers              5             0

                 Others                            4             0

                 Total                                           2.3


166
Symbol/name   Application/end use                Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)   Comment(s)
                                                 end use (%)   (%)

Sulfur (S)    Chemical applications (including   71            0       (SCRREEN,
              fertilizers)                                             2023d)

              Petroleum refining                 24            0

              Metallurgy                         4             0

              Paper production                   1             0

              Total                                            0




167
Symbol/name   Application/end use   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)   Comment(s)
                                    end use (%)   (%)

Talc          Polymer for cars      34            90      (SCRREEN,   (IMA Europe, 2023)
                                                          2023d)
              Paper                 21            70.6                (Department for Environment Food & Rural
                                                                      Affairs, 2024)

              Paint and coatings    18            0

              Feed                  8             0

              Building material     7             0

              Fertilisers           4             0

              Rubber                2             0

              Cosmetics             1             0

              Pharmaceuticals       1             0

              Other                 4             0

              Total                               45.43




168
Symbol/name      Application/end use       Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                           end use (%)   (%)

Tantalum (Ta)    Capacitors                33            0       (MSP-
                                                                 REFRAM,
                                                                 2020)
                 Superalloys               22            62                      (Curwick et al., 1980)

                 Sputtering targets        17            0

                 Chemicals                 11            0

                 Mill products             9             0

                 Carbides                  8             0

                 Total                                   13.64

Tellurium (Te)   Solar power               40            90      (U.S.           (International Cadmium Association, 2024a)
                                                                 Geological
                                                                 Survey, 2020)
                 Thermo-electric devices   30            0

                 Metallurgy                15            0

                 Chemical manufacture      10            0

                 Rubber vulcanising        5             0

                 Total                                   36



169
Symbol/name     Application/end use                Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)      Comment(s)
                                                   end use (%)   (%)

Thallium (Tl)   Electronics industry in            65            0       BGS in-house
                photoelectric cells                                      estimate

                Others (pharmaceuticals, alloys,   35            0
                glass)

                Total                                            0

Thorium (Th)    Nuclear reactor                    50            0       BGS in-house
                                                                         estimate
                Heat resistant ceramics            20            0

                Refractory metal manufacturing     20            0

                Electronics equipment coatings     2             0

                Gas mantles                        2             0

                Others                             6             0

                Total                                            0




170
Symbol/name   Application/end use   Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                    end use (%)   (%)

Tin (Sn)      Solder                48            0       (International   EoLRR for Tin is manually entered due to
                                                          Tin              the absence of openly accessible data for
                                                          Association,     different sectors. (International Tin
              Chemicals             17            0
                                                          2021)            Association, 2020)

              Tinplate              12            0

              Lead-acid batteries   7             0

              Tin-Copper            7             0

              Others                9             0

              Total                               33




171
Symbol/name     Application/end use          Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)          Comment(s)
                                             end use (%)   (%)

Titanium (Ti)   Paints                       54            0       (Graedel et al.,   (Graedel et al., 2022)
                                                                   2022)
                Polymers                     24            0


                Aerospace                    8             80


                Medical equipment            6             30


                Automotive                   3             30


                Alloys                       2             30


                Hand-held objects            2             30


                Others                       1             0


                Total                                      10.3


Tungsten (W)    Tungsten carbide products    65            40      (International     (Zeiler et al., 2021)
                                                                   Tungsten
                                                                   Industry
                Steels & superalloys         14            15      Association,
                                                                   2024)
                Tungsten metallic products   12            22


                Chemicals and others         9             5


                Total                                      31.19


172
Symbol/name    Application/end use                Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)          Comment(s)
                                                  end use (%)   (%)

Uranium (U)    Energy production                  90            7.6     (World Nuclear     EoLRR is based on BGS in-house estimate
                                                                        Association,
                                                                        2024a)
               Isotopes used for medical,         10            0
               industrial, and defence purposes

               Total                                            6.84

Vanadium (V)   Steels: HSLA, alloy steels,        91            91      (Graedel et al.,   (Worldstainless, 2023)
               stainless steels (1-6 percent                            2022)
               vanadium)

               Superalloys: Titanium-Aluminium-   3             62                         (Curwick et al., 1980)
               Vanadium alloys and V–Cr–Ti
               alloy (90 wt%)

               Cost iron                          2             0

               Chemicals                          3             0

               Energy storage                     1             0

               Total                                            84.67




173
Symbol/name    Application/end use     Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)       Comment(s)
                                       end use (%)   (%)

Vermiculite    Agriculture             30            0       (U.S.
                                                             Geological
                                                             Survey,
               Lightweight aggregate   21            1                       BGS in-house estimate
                                                             2024b)

               Insulation              14            0

               Other                   35            0

               Total                                 0.21

Wollastonite   Ceramics                35            0       (Nair and
                                                             Sairam, 2021)
               Polymers                33            17                      (Brooking, 2024)

               Paints and coatings     12            0

               Other                   20            0

               Total                                 5.61




174
Symbol/name   Application/end use          Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)        Comment(s)
                                           end use (%)   (%)

Zeolite       Drying                       62.5          0       (El Bojaddayni
                                                                 et al., 2023)
              Separation                   18.7          0

              Adsorption                   11.4          0

              Detergent                    3.1           0

              Others                       4.3           0

              Total                                      0

Zinc (Zn)     Steel products galvanizing   60            0       (International   EoLRR for Zinc is manually entered due to
                                                                 Lead & Zinc      the absence of openly accessible data for
                                                                 Study Group,     different sectors. (International Energy
              Die-Casting alloys           13            0
                                                                 2023a)           Agency, 2021)

              Brass & Casting              11            0

              Oxides & Chemicals           9             0

              Semi-Manufactures            5             0

              Others                       2             0

              Total                                      33



175
Symbol/name      Application/end use    Share of      EoLRR   Source(s)    Comment(s)
                                        end use (%)   (%)

Zirconium (Zr)   Advance ceramics       38            0       (ZIRCOMET,
                                                              2019)
                 Ceramics pigments      18            0

                 Cubic zirconia         14            0

                 Catalyst               15            0

                 TiO2 pigment coating   5             0

                 Paper coating          3             0

                 Others                 7             0

                 Total                                0




176
These are the synthesized end-of-life recycling collection rates (EoLRR).

 Commodity                       EoLRR (%)       Commodity                  EoLRR (%)

 Aluminium (Al)                  71              Rhodium (Rh)               28

 Antimony (Sb)                   20              Ruthenium (Ru)             0

 Arsenic (As)                    0               Selenium (Se)              10

 Beryllium (Be)                  5               Silicon (Si)               15

 Bismuth (Bi)                    0               Silver (Ag)                46

 Cadmium (Cd)                    18              Sodium (Na)                0

 Natural Graphite                16              Strontium (Sr)             2

 Chromium (Cr)                   77              Sulphur (S)                0

 Cobalt (Co)                     48              Tantalum (Ta)              14

 Copper (Cu)                     77              Tellurium (Te)             36

 Gallium (Ga)                    17              Tin (Sn)                   33

 Germanium (Ge)                  30              Titanium (Ti)              10

 Gold (Au)                       95              Tungsten (W)               31

 Hafnium (Hf)                    28              Uranium (U)                7

 Helium (He)                     27              Vanadium (V)               85

 Indium (In)                     11              Zinc (Zn)                  33

 Iridium (Ir)                    0               Zirconium (Zr)             0

 Iron (Fe)                       83              Barite                     7

 Lead (Pb)                       81              Bentonite                  26

 Lithium (Li)                    3               Borates                    20




177
Commodity                   EoLRR (%)   Commodity                  EoLRR (%)

Magnesium (Mg)              47          Diamonds                   0

Manganese (Mn)              75          Diatomite                  4

Molybdenum (Mo)             44          Feldspar                   7

Nickel (Ni)                 60          Fluorine                   1

Niobium (Nb)                9           Garnet                     0

Palladium (Pd)              30          Gypsum                     24

Phosphorus (P)              0           Kaolin clay                38

Platinum (Pt)               18          Kyanite                    0

Potassium (K)               0           Industrial limestone       59

Rare earth elements (REE)   0           Magnesite                  52

Rhenium (Re)                43          Perlite                    0

Pumice                      1           Industrial (silica) sand   16

Pyrophyllite                8           Talc                       45

Industrial salt             0           Vermiculite                0




178
Appendix 7 Gross value added
UK GVA is a way to measure the financial value of goods and services in the UK economy, allowing assessment at national and regional levels
and across different industries or sectors of the economy. It is calculated from an annual business survey, leading to a comprehensive set of
statistics covering all sectors of the UK economy. The allocation of business activity is based on ‘Standard industrial classification’ (SIC) codes
(Office for National Statistics, 2007). These are similar to HS codes in trade data and map business activity to subsections of major industrial
sectors. For example, two-digit SIC codes map major industrial sectors (for example, 07 is metal mining; 26 is electronics manufacturing), whilst
four-digit SIC codes map to specific parts of each industrial sector (or example, 07.29 is mining of non-ferrous metal ores; 26.51 is manufacture of
instruments and appliances for measuring, testing and navigation). Anything <10% and ‘other’ have been excluded from mapping. These are
predominantly EU and world application use.

 Candidate        Application end use           Share of         Reference for SIC07 code(s)               avgGVA     Notes
 material                                       application      application                               total (£
                                                for CM (%)       use and share                             million)
                                                                 (%)
                                                                                  (Office for National Statistics,
                                                                                  2024)

 Aluminium (Al)   Mobility - transport          42               (SCRREEN,        29.2 Manufacture of
                                                                 2023d)           bodies (coachwork)       991
                                                                                  for motor vehicles;
                                                                                  manufacture of
                                                                                  trailers and semi-
                                                                                  trailers

                  Construction                  23                                25.12 Manufacture
                                                                                  of doors and             1,045
                                                                                  windows of metal

                  Packaging                     17                                25.92 Manufacture
                                                                                  of light metal           579
                                                                                  packaging


179
                High-tech engineering   12                                             Excluded as 'high-tech
                                                                                       engineering' is too vague

                Consumer durables       6

Antimony (Sb)   Flame retardants        43   (SCRREEN,   20.13 Manufacture
                                             2023d)      of other inorganic    1,074
                                                         basic chemicals -
                                                         based on this being
                                                         ATO (Sb2O3)

                Lead acid batteries     32               27.2 Manufacture of
                                                         batteries and         136
                                                         accumulators

                Lead alloys             14               24.43 Lead, zinc,
                                                         and tin production    65

                Plastics                6

                Glass and Ceramics      5

Arsenic (As)    Zinc production         70   (SCRREEN,   24.43 Lead, zinc,
                                             2023d)      and tin production    65

                Glassmaking             18               23.1 Manufacture of
                                                         glass and glass       1,428
                                                         products

                Chemicals               7



180
                 Alloys                  5

Beryllium (Be)   Electronic and          30   (European     26.1 Manufacture of
                 telecommunications           Commission,   computer, electronic   1,314
                 equipment                    2024)         and optical products

                 Industrial components   20                 28.12 Manufacture       499
                                                            of fluid power         1,134
                                                            equipment              572
                                                            28.13 Manufacture      485
                                                            of other pumps and
                                                            compressors
                                                            28.14 Manufacture
                                                            of other taps and
                                                            valves
                                                            28.15 Manufacture
                                                            of bearings, gears,
                                                            gearing and driving
                                                            elements

                 Auto electronics        17                 29.31 Manufacture
                                                            of electrical and      237
                                                            electronic
                                                            equipment for motor
                                                            vehicles

                 Aerospace and defence   6

                 Other                   27




181
Bismuth (Bi)    Chemicals                80   (SCRREEN,   20.13 Manufacture
                                              2023d)      of other inorganic     1,074
                                                          basic chemicals

                Fusible alloys           10               24.45 Other non-
                                                          ferrous metal          158
                                                          production

                Metallurgy               10               24.45 Other non-
                                                          ferrous metal          158
                                                          production

Cadmium (Cd)    NiCd batteries           91   (SCRREEN,   27.2 Manufacture of
                                              2023d)      batteries and          136
                                                          accumulators

                Alloys                   5

                Solar                    1

                Coating                  3

Chromium (Cr)   Products made of steel   74   (SCRREEN,   24.1 Manufacture of
                                              2023d)      basic iron and steel   1,152
                                                          and of ferro-alloys

                Products made of alloy   19               24.1 Manufacture of
                steel                                     basic iron and steel   1,152
                                                          and of ferro-alloys

                Casting moulds           3


182
              Products made of              3
              chromium chemicals

              Refractory bricks &           1
              mortars

Cobalt (Co)   Super alloys                  30     (SCRREEN,   24.45 Other non-
                                                   2023d)      ferrous metal         158
                                                               production

              Magnets                       18                 23.44 Manufacture            Includes manufacture of
                                                               of other technical    29    ceramic and ferrite magnets
                                                               ceramic products

              Internationally dissipative                                                  Excluded as 'Internationally
              uses                                                                         dissipative uses' is too
                                                                                           vague

              Hard metals                   13                 24.45 Other non-
                                                               ferrous metal         158
                                                               production

              Batteries                     13                 27.2 Manufacture of
                                                               batteries and         136
                                                               accumulators

              Catalysts                     9

Copper (Cu)   Electrical power (20.9%) +    27.4   (SCRREEN,   24.44 Copper                 Includes manufacturing of
              power utility (6.5%)                 2023d)      production            94    copper wire



183
      Telecommunications             2.7

      Industry (electrical) (6.5%)   16.2   24.44 Copper              Includes manufacturing of
      + (non-electrical) (9.7%)             production          94    copper wire

      Automotive (electrical)        13.9
      (9.7%) + other transport                                  237
      (4.2%)

      Automotive (non-electrical)    0.7

      Consumer & general             10     26.11 Manufacture         Includes semiconductors
      products (7.9%) +                     of electronic       879   and wafers (PVs)
      electronics (2.1%)                    components

      Cooling                        3

      Diverse                        12.7                             Excluded as 'diverse' is too
                                                                      vague

      Plumbing                       10.2   24.44 Copper              Includes semi-
                                            production          94    manufacturing of copper
                                                                      (e.g. pipes)

      Building plant                 0.4

      Architecture                   1.6

      Communications                 1.2




184
Gallium (Ga)   Integrated circuits   40   (SCRREEN,   26.12 Manufacture
                                          2023d)      of loaded electronic    434
                                                      boards

               Optoelectronics       20               26.11 Manufacture               Includes LEDs (main use of
                                                      of electronic           879     Ga in optics)
                                                      components and
                                                      boards

               Sensors               18               26.51 Manufacture               Includes different types of
                                                      of instruments and      4,966   sensors (e.g. radiation,
                                                      appliances for                  temperature)
                                                      measuring, testing
                                                      and navigation

               Magnets               14               23.44 Manufacture               Includes manufacture of
                                                      of other technical      29      ceramic and ferrite magnets
                                                      ceramic products

               GaAs modules (PV)     3

               Other                 5

Germanium      Infrared optics       52   (SCRREEN,   26.7 Manufacture of
(Ge)                                      2023d)      optical instruments     371
                                                      and photographic
                                                      equipment

               Optical fibres        23               27.31 Manufacture
                                                      of fibre optic cables   101




185
               Satellite solar cells    12               26.11 Manufacture             Includes semiconductors
                                                         of electronic         879     and wafers (PVs)
                                                         components

               Other                    13                                             Excluded as 'other' is too
                                                                                       vague

Gold (Au)      Investment               41   (SCRREEN,                                 Excluded as investment
                                             2023d)                                    falls under a very broad set
                                                                                       of SIC07 codes (e.g.
                                                                                       financial services)

               Electronics              41               26.1 Manufacture of
                                                         electronic            1,314
                                                         components and
                                                         boards

               Jewellery                9

               Dentistry                2

               Other                    7

Hafnium (Hf)   Superalloys (aircraft)   43   (SCRREEN,   24.45 Other non-
                                             2023d)      ferrous metal         158
                                                         production

               Superalloys (turbines)   18               24.45 Other non-
                                                         ferrous metal         158
                                                         production



186
              Plasma cutting tips          15               24.44 Copper                Includes copper alloys that
                                                            production            94    are used to manufacture
                                                                                        plasma cutting tips

              Nuclear control rods         11               25.3 Manufacture of         Includes nuclear reactors
                                                            steam generators,     282
                                                            except central
                                                            heating hot water
                                                            boilers

              Catalyst precursors          7

              Other                        6

Helium (He)   Cryogenics                   22   (SCRREEN,   26.6 Manufacture of         Assuming main use is in
                                                2023d)      irradiation,          585   medical imaging kit
                                                            electromedical and
                                                            electrotherapeutic
                                                            equipment

              Controlled atmospheres       31               20.11 Manufacture
              (23%) + welding (8%)                          of industrial gases   644

              Pressurisation and purging   16               20.11 Manufacture
              (9%) + leak detection (7%)                    of industrial gases   644

              Semiconductors, optic        8
              fibres

              Balloons                     14               20.11 Manufacture
                                                            of industrial gases   644


187
              Analysis                     9

Indium (In)   Flat panel displays          60   (SCRREEN,   26.4 Manufacture of           Includes TVs and displays
                                                2023d)      consumer              281
                                                            electronics

              Solders                      11               20.59 Manufacture             Includes powders and
                                                            of other chemical     1,999   pastes used in soldering,
                                                            products n.e.c.               brazing or welding

              PV cells                     9

              Thermal interface material   10               26.11 Manufacture
              (7%) + semiconductors                         of electronic         879
              and LEDs (3%)                                 components and
                                                            boards

              Batteries                    6

              Alloys/compounds             4

Iron (Fe)     Construction                 38   (SCRREEN,   25.11 Manufacture
                                                2023d)      of metal structures   3,374
                                                            and parts of
                                                            structures

              Automotive                   16               29.2 Manufacture of
                                                            bodies (coachwork)    991
                                                            for motor vehicles;
                                                            manufacture of



188
                                                      trailers and semi-
                                                      trailers

            Mechanical engineering   15                                             Excluded as 'Mechanical
                                                                                    engineering' is too vague

            Metalware                14               25.11 Manufacture
                                                      of metal structures   3,374
                                                      and parts of
                                                      structures

            Tubes                    10               25.11 Casting of              Includes pipes and hollow
                                                      iron                  155     sections

            Domestic appliances      2

            Transport                2

            Other                    3

Lead (Pb)   Batteries                84   (SCRREEN,   27.2 Manufacture of
                                          2023d)      batteries and         136
                                                      accumulators

            Rolled and extruded      6
            products

            Compounds and pigments   4

            Shots and ammunition     4



189
               Cable sheathing            1

               Alloys and solders         1

Lithium (Li)   Batteries                  71   (SCRREEN,   27.2 Manufacture of
                                               2023d)      batteries and         136
                                                           accumulators

               Ceramics and glass         14               23.4 Manufacture of   341
                                                           other porcelain and   1,428
                                                           ceramic products
                                                           23.1 Manufacture of
                                                           glass and glass
                                                           products

               Lubricating greases        4

               Polymer production         2

               Continuous casting mould   2
               flux powders

               Air treatment              1

               Other                      6

Magnesium      Transportation             50   (SCRREEN,   29.2 Manufacture of
(Mg)           (automotive)                    2023d)      bodies (coachwork)    991
                                                           for motor vehicles;
                                                           manufacture of



190
                                                           trailers and semi-
                                                           trailers

            Packaging                     21               25.92 Manufacture
                                                           of light metal          579
                                                           packaging

            Construction                  13               23.52 Manufacture       101
                                                           of lime and plaster     148
                                                           23.51 Manufacture
                                                           of cement

            Delsuphurisation agent        12               24.1 Manufacture of
                                                           basic iron and steel    1,152
                                                           and of ferro-alloys -
                                                           use here is to
                                                           desulphurise steel

            Transportation (air, marine   4
            etc)

Manganese   Building and construction     43   (SCRREEN,   25.11 Manufacture
(Mn)                                           2023d)      of metal structures     3,374
                                                           and parts of
                                                           structures

            Metalware                     14               25.11 Manufacture
                                                           of metal structures     3,374
                                                           and parts of
                                                           structures

            Transportation (motor         10               29.2 Manufacture of
            vehicles)                                      bodies (coachwork)      991


191
                                                         for motor vehicles;
                                                         manufacture of
                                                         trailers and semi-
                                                         trailers

             Transportation (other      10               29.2 Manufacture of
             transport equipment)                        bodies (coachwork)     991
                                                         for motor vehicles;
                                                         manufacture of
                                                         trailers and semi-
                                                         trailers

             Engineering (industrial)   9

             Engineering (machinery &   8
             equipment)

             Domestic appliances        2

             Batteries                  2

             Other                      2

Molybdenum   Engineering steels         40   (SCRREEN,   24.1 Manufacture of
(Mo)                                         2023d)      basic iron and steel   1,152
                                                         and of ferro-alloys

             Stainless steel (23%) +    31               24.1 Manufacture of
             tool steels (8%)                            basic iron and steel   1,152
                                                         and of ferro-alloys




192
               Chemicals               13                                              Excluded as 'chemicals' is
                                                                                       too vague, this could
                                                                                       include catalysts, pigments,
                                                                                       lubricants, etc.

               Foundries               8

               Mo-metals               6

               Nickel alloys           2

Nickel (Ni)    Stainless steel         49   (SCRREEN,   24.1 Manufacture of
                                            2023d)      basic iron and steel   1,152
                                                        and of ferro-alloys

               Ni-based & Cu-based     23               24.45 Other non-
               alloys                                   ferrous metal          158
                                                        production

               Alloy steel & casting   18               24.52 Casting of
                                                        steel                  64

               Plating                 4

               Batteries               2

               Other                   4

Niobium (Nb)   Construction (steel)    47   (SCRREEN,   25.11 Manufacture
                                            2023d)      of metal structures    3,374


193
                                                   and parts of
                                                   structures

             Automative (steel)   24               29.2 Manufacture of
                                                   bodies (coachwork)       991
                                                   for motor vehicles;
                                                   manufacture of
                                                   trailers and semi-
                                                   trailers

             Oil & gas            17               24.52 Casting of
                                                   steel - assume here      64
                                                   main use is
                                                   pipework

             Stainless steel      10               24.1 Manufacture of
                                                   basic iron and steel     1,152
                                                   and of ferro-alloys

             Special steel        2

Phosphorus   Plastics             30   (SCRREEN,   20.16 Manufacture
(P)                                    2023d)      of plastics in primary   1,475
                                                   forms

             Food industry        21               20.13 Manufacture                Added to food in chemical
                                                   of other inorganic       1,074   form e.g. phosphoric acid or
                                                   basic chemicals                  P-salts.

             Water treatment      17               20.13 Manufacture                Zn-phosphate used to
                                                   of other inorganic       1,074   inhibit corrosion in water
                                                   basic chemicals                  distribution systems



194
                Metal treatment         15                      25.61 Treatment
                                                                and coating of        942
                                                                metals

                Pharmaceuticals         7

                Other                   10

Potassium (K)   Fertilisers             92   (Graedel et al.,   20.15 Manufacture           Includes ammonia
                                             2022)              of fertilisers and    453
                                                                nitrogen compounds

                Chemicals               8

Rare earth      Magnets                 53   (SCRREEN,          25.99 Manufacture           Includes permanent
elements                                     2023d)             of other fabricated         magnets
                                                                metal products
                                                                n.e.c.

                Catalysts               25                      20.59 Manufacture           Includes catalysts
                                                                of other chemical
                                                                products n.e.c.

                Metallurgical           9

                Polishing powders       3

                Ceramics (3%) + other   10                      23.4 Manufacture of         The assumption here is that
                (7%)                                            other porcelain and         ‘other’ is glass
                                                                ceramic products
                                                                23.1 Manufacture of


195
                                                          glass and glass
                                                          products

Rhenium (Re)    Aerospace                83   (SCRREEN,   30.30 Manufacture               Includes parts for jet
                                              2023d)      of air and spacecraft   6,733   engines
                                                          and related
                                                          machinery

                Catalysts in petroleum   17               20.59 Manufacture               Includes catalysts
                industry                                  of other chemical       1,999
                                                          products n.e.c.

Selenium (Se)   Glass manufacturing      30   (SCRREEN,   23.1 Manufacture of
                                              2023d)      glass and glass         1,428
                                                          products

                Metallurgy               15               24.1 Manufacture of             A small amount of Se
                                                          basic iron and steel    1,152   added to iron and steel
                                                          and of ferro-alloys             improves ductility

                Electronics              15               26.11 Manufacture               Includes semiconductors
                                                          of electronic           879     and wafers (PVs)
                                                          components

                Pigments                 15               20.12 Manufacture
                                                          of dyes and             348
                                                          pigments

                Agriculture/biological   15               20.15 Manufacture               A small amount of Se
                                                          of fertilisers and      453     added to fertilisers aids
                                                          nitrogen compounds              plant/crop growth




196
               Other                     10

Silicon (Si)   Chemical applications     54   (SCRREEN,   20.13 Manufacture
                                              2023d)      of other inorganic    1,074
                                                          basic chemicals

               Aluminium alloys          38               24.42 Aluminium
                                                          production            221

               Solar applications        6

               Electronic applications   2

Silver (Ag)    Electrical/electronics    21   (SCRREEN,   26.1 Manufacture of
                                              2023d)      electronic            1,314
                                                          components and
                                                          boards

               Jewellery                 17               32.12 Manufacture
                                                          of jewellery and      340
                                                          related articles

               Investment (coins and     15               32.11 Striking of
               medals)                                    coins                 -

               Investment (bars)         12               24.41 Precious
                                                          metals production     59

               PV                        11               26.11 Manufacture             Includessemiconductors
                                                          of electronic         879     and wafers (PVs)
                                                          components


197
                 Other                    24

Sodium (Na)      Chemicals                86   Personal       20.13 Manufacture
                                               estimates      of other inorganic   1,074
                                               based on BGS   basic chemicals
                                               knowledge
                 Other                    14

Strontium (Sr)   Magnets                  40   (SCRREEN,      23.44 Manufacture            Includes manufacture of
                                               2023d)         of other technical   29      ceramic and ferrite magnets
                                                              ceramic products

                 Pyrotechnics & signals   40                  20.51 Manufacture
                                                              of explosives        54

                 Master alloys            5

                 Pigements & fillers      5

                 Zinc production          5

                 Glass                    5

                 Drilling fluids          0

Sulphur (S)      Chemical applications    71   (SCRREEN,      20.13 Manufacture
                                               2023d)         of other inorganic   1,074
                                                              basic chemicals




198
                 Petroleum refining   24               20.59 Manufacture             Includes catalysts
                                                       of other chemical     1,999
                                                       products n.e.c.

                 Metallurgy           4

                 Paper production     1

Tantalum (Ta)    Capacitors           36   (SCRREEN,   27.9 Manufacture of           Includes capacitors
                                           2023d)      other electrical      748
                                                       equipment

                 Superalloys          24               24.45 Other non-
                                                       ferrous metal         158
                                                       production

                 Sputtering targets   11               25.61 Treatment
                                                       and coating of        942
                                                       metals

                 Mill products        12               24.45 Other non-
                                                       ferrous metal         158
                                                       production

                 Carbides             9

                 Chemicals            8

Tellurium (Te)   Solar power          40   (SCRREEN,   26.11 Manufacture             Includes semiconductors
                                           2023d)      of electronic         879     and wafers (PVs)
                                                       components


199
           Thermo electrical devices   30               26.11 Manufacture              Includes semiconductors
                                                        of electronic          879     i.e. thermo-electric devices
                                                        components

           Metallurgy                  15               24.1 Manufacture of            A small amount of Te added
                                                        basic iron and steel   1,152   to iron and steel improves
                                                        and of ferro-alloys            ductility

           Chemical manufacturing      10               20.59 Manufacture              Te is used in the
                                                        of other chemical      1,999   manufacture of catalysts
                                                        products n.e.c.

           Rubber vulcanising          5

Tin (Sn)   Solders                     48   (SCRREEN,   20.59 Manufacture              Includes powders and
                                            2023d)      of other chemical      1,999   pastes used in soldering,
                                                        products n.e.c.                brazing or welding

           Chemicals                   17               20.13 Manufacture
                                                        of other inorganic     1,074
                                                        basic chemicals

           Tinplate                    12               25.61 Treatment
                                                        and coating of         942
                                                        metals

           Lead acid batteries         7

           Copper alloys               7

           Other                       9


200
Titanium (Ti)   Pigments                 78   (Graedel et al.,   20.12 Manufacture
                                              2022)              of dyes and         348
                                                                 pigments

                Aerospace                8

                Medical equipment        6

                Automotive               3

                Alloys                   2

                Hand-held objects        2

                Other                    1

Tungsten (W)    Tungsten carbide         64   (SCRREEN,          28.49 Manufacture         Includes manufacture of
                                              2023d)             of other machine    169   parts and accessories for
                                                                 tools                     machine tools (assume
                                                                                           cutting heads and drill bits)

                Tungsten metal           17                      24.45 Other non-
                                                                 ferrous metal       158
                                                                 production

                Steels and superalloys   11                      24.45 Other non-
                                                                 ferrous metal       158
                                                                 production

                Chemicals                8


201
Uranium (U)    Energy production            90   (World Nuclear   24.46 Processing of    -
                                                 Association,     nuclear fuel
                                                 2024b)
               Isotopes used for medical,   10                                                   Excluded as isotopes were
               industrial, and defence                                                           not included in the
               purposes                                                                          assessment

Vanadium (V)   HSLA Steel                   50   (SCRREEN,        29.2 Manufacture of            Specifies HSLA which is
                                                 2023d)           bodies (coachwork)     991     mainly used in car bodies,
                                                                  for motor vehicles;            therefore assign to 29.2
                                                                  manufacture of
                                                                  trailers and semi-
                                                                  trailers

               Special steels               38                    24.1 Manufacture of
                                                                  basic iron and steel   1,152
                                                                  and of ferro-alloys

               Superalloys                  5

               Chemcials                    3

               Cast iron                    2

               Other                        2

Zinc (Zn)      Galvanising                  51   (SCRREEN,        25.61 Treatment
                                                 2023d)           and coating of         942
                                                                  metals




202
                 Zn alloys          17               24.43 Lead, zinc              Includes alloys of Zn
                                                     and tin production    65

                 Brass and bronze   15               24.43 Lead, zinc              Includes alloys of Zn
                                                     and tin production    65

                 Zn compounds       10               20.13 Manufacture
                                                     of other inorganic    1,074
                                                     basic chemicals

                 Zn mill products   6

                 Other              1

Zirconium (Zr)   Ceramics           50   (SCRREEN,   23.4 Manufacture of
                                         2023d)      other porcelain and   341
                                                     ceramic products

                 Refactories        13               23.2 Manufacture of
                                                     refractory products   149

                 Foundry            13               23.2 Manufacture of
                                                     refractory products   149

                 Chemicals          11               20.13 Manufacture
                                                     of other inorganic    1,074
                                                     basic chemicals

                 Pigments           3




203
                Superalloys, nuclear   3

                Others                 7

Platinum (Pt)   Autocatalyst           90   (SCRREEN,   29.32 Manufacture            Includes catalytic
                                            2023d)      of other parts and   2,718   converters
                                                        accessories for
                                                        motor vehicles

                Electrical             4

                Chemcial               3

                Dental                 1

                Jewellery              1

                Other                  1

Rhodium (Rh)    Autocatalyst           91   (SCRREEN,   29.32 Manufacture             Includes catalytic
                                            2023d)      of other parts and   2,718   converters
                                                        accessories for
                                                        motor vehicles

                Chemical               5

                Glass                  2

                Other                  2



204
Iridium (Ir)     Electronics/electrical   30   (SCRREEN,   26.11 Manufacture             Includes LEDs and
                                               2023d)      of electronic                 manufacture of display
                                                           components                    components (i.e. plasma,
                                                                                         polymer, LCD)

                 Electrochemical          26               27.9 Manufacture of           Includes fuel cells - assume
                                                           other electrical              most of the use here is in
                                                           equipment                     fuel cells

                 Chemical                 9

                 Medical                  9

                 Automotive               6

                 Other                    20

Palladium (Pd)   Autocatalysts            88   (SCRREEN,   29.32 Manufacture              Includes catalytic
                                               2023d)      of other parts and    2,718   converters
                                                           accessories for
                                                           motor vehicles

                 Electrical/electronics   4

                 Chemical                 3

                 Dental and biomedical    2

                 Jewellery                2




205
            Other                        1

Ruthenium   Electrical/electronics       42   (SCRREEN,        26.11 Manufacture                Includes LEDs and
(Ru)                                          2023d)           of electronic           879     manufacture of display
                                                               components                      components (i.e. plasma,
                                                                                               polymer, LCD)

            Chemical                     32                    20.59 Manufacture               Includes catalysts
                                                               of other chemical       1,999
                                                               products n.e.c.

            Electrochemical              13                    27.9 Manufacture of              Includes fuel cells -
                                                               other electrical        748     assume most of the use
                                                               equipment                       here is in fuel cells

            Others                       13

Barite      Oil industry                 69   Personal         23.99 Manufacture
                                              estimates        of other non-metallic   377
                                              based on         mineral products not
                                              Bleiwas and      elsewhere classified
                                              Miller (2014),
                                              and BGS
            Chemical - electronics, TV   16                    21.1 Manufacture of     789
                                              knowledge.
            screen, glass, ceramics                            basic                   1,428
            and medical applications                           pharmaceutical          281
            (barium meals)                                     products
                                                               23.1 Manufacture of
                                                               glass and glass
                                                               products
                                                               26.4 Manufacture of
                                                               consumer
                                                               electronics


206
            Fillers - car, rubber and        15               22.1 Manufacture of      1,024
            paint industry, radiation                         rubber products         1,448
            shielding                                         20.3 Manufacture of
                                                              paints, varnishes
                                                              and similar coatings,
                                                              printing ink and
                                                              mastics

Bentonite   Pet litter                       31   (SCRREEN,   23.99 Manufacture
                                                  2023d)      of other non-metallic   377
                                                              mineral products not
                                                              elsewhere
                                                              classified.

            Foundry moulding                 28               23.2 Manufacture of
                                                              refractory products     149

            Civil engineering                12                                                Excluded as 'civil
                                                                                               engineering' is too vague

            Pelletising of iron              8

            Bleaching earths                 7

            Paper                            4

            Specialities & drilling fluids   4

            Feed production                  3

            Food & wine                      0


207
            Oil absorbents          0

            Other                   3

Borates     Glass                   49   (European       23.1 Manufacture of
                                         Commission et   glass and glass         1,428
                                         al., 2020b)     products

            Ceramics                15                   23.1 Manufacture of             Mostly household ceramics
                                                         clay building           341     where borates are used in
                                                         materials                       glazes

            Fertilisers             13                   20.15 Manufacture
                                                         of fertilisers and      453
                                                         nitrogen compounds

Diamonds    Jewellery               95   (Real Diamond   32.12 Manufacture
                                         Invest, 2024)   of jewellery and        340
                                                         related articles

            Abrasives               5

Diatomite   Food industry           48   (SCRREEN,       23.99 Manufacture               The assumption is this is
                                         2023d)          of other non-metallic   377     largely used for filtration
                                                         mineral products
                                                         n.e.c.

            Pellettising iron ore   23                   7.1 Mining of iron      -
                                                         ores inc.
                                                         beneficiation and



208
                                                     agglomeration of
                                                     iron ores

           Activated raw granules   13                23.99 Manufacture            The assumption is this is
                                                     of other non-metallic   377   largely used for filtration
                                                     mineral products
                                                     n.e.c.

           Pet litter               7

           Civil engineering        6

           Drilling fluids          2

           Foundry moulding sands   1

Feldspar   Bricks and tiles         46   (SCRREEN,   23.32 Manufacture
                                         2023d)      of bricks, tiles and    635
                                                     construction
                                                     products, in baked
                                                     clay

           Ceramics                 45               23.4 Manufacture of
                                                     other porcelain and     341
                                                     ceramic products

           Glass                    6

           Other                    3




209
Fluorine (F)   Steel and iron making      36   (SCRREEN,      24.1 Manufacture of
                                               2023d)         basic iron and steel     1,152
                                                              and of ferro-alloys

               Aluminium making and       15                  24.42 Aluminium
               other metallurgy                               production               221

               Solid fluoropolymers       11                  20.16 Manufacture                Includes polymers
               (cookware coating and                          of plastics in primary   1,475
               cable insulation)                              forms

               Fluorochemicals            11                  20.13 Manufacture
                                                              of other inorganic       1,074
                                                              basic chemicals

               Refrigeration and air      9
               conditioning

               HF in alkylation process   4
               for oil refining

               UF6 in nuclear fuel        7

               Other (cement, ceramics,   7
               glass, melting rods,
               glazes)

Garnet         Abrasives                  65   Based on       23.91 Production of
                                               Harben (1999), abrasive products        47
                                               and BGS
                                               knowledge
               Other                      35


210
Graphite      Refractories for steel        41   (SCRREEN,     23.2 Manufacture of             The association with steel
(natural)     making (32%) + foundries           2023d)        refractory products     149     making here is the
              (9%)                                                                             production of furnace linings

              Lithium-ion batteries         25                 27.2 Manufacture of
                                                               batteries and           136
                                                               accumulators

              Lubricants (13%) + friction   13                 20.59 Manufacture
              products (9%)                                    of other chemical       1,999
                                                               products n.e.c.

              Steel recarburising           3

              Other                         9

Gypsum        Plasterboard & wallboard      51   (SCRREEN,     23.52 Manufacture
                                                 2023d)        of lime and plaster     101

              Building plaster              26                 23.52 Manufacture
                                                               of lime and plaster     101

              Cement production             17                 23.51 Manufacture
                                                               of cement               148

              Agriculture                   6

Kaolin clay   Paper making                  44   (European     17.2 Manufacture of
                                                 Commission,   articles of paper and   3,060
                                                 2024)         paperboard



211
             Ceramics                  28                   23.4 Manufacture of
                                                            other porcelain and      341
                                                            ceramic products

             Fiberglass                9

             Paints and construction   6

             Refractories              5

             Other                     8

Kyanite      Refractories              70   Based on        23.2 Manufacture of
                                            Sweet Sweet     refractory products      149
                                            et al. (2006)
                                            and BGS
             Ceramics                  30                   23.4 Manufacture of
                                            knowledge
                                                            other porcelain and      341
                                                            ceramic products

Industrial   Construction              31   (SCRREEN,       23.51 Manufacture
limestone                                   2023d)          of cement                101

             Paper, rubber & plastic   31                   17.2 Manufacture of       3,060
                                                            articles of paper and    1,475
                                                            paperboard               1,024
                                                            20.16 Manufacture
                                                            of plastics in primary
                                                            forms
                                                            22.1 Manufacture of
                                                            rubber products



212
            Flue gas desulphurisation   9

            Manufacture of basic        8
            metals

            Paint, coating, adhesives   6

            Agriculture                 5

            Feed                        4

            Other                       6

Magnesite   Steel making                57   (SCRREEN,   23.2 Manufacture of
                                             2023d)      refractory products -   149
                                                         steel making here is
                                                         furnace linings

            Agriculture                 14               10.91 Manufacture
                                                         of prepared feeds       842
                                                         for farm animals

            Paper                       12               17.2 Manufacture of
                                                         articles of paper and   3,060
                                                         paperboard

            Cement                      9

            Ceramics                    5




213
          Glass                        3

Perlite   Construction                 59   (SCRREEN,   23.99 Manufacture               The assumption is this is
                                            2023d)      of other non-metallic   377     largely used for light weight
                                                        mineral products                aggregate
                                                        n.e.c.

          Filtration                   24               23.99 Manufacture               The assumption is this is
                                                        of other non-metallic   377     largely used for light weight
                                                        mineral products                aggregate
                                                        n.e.c.

          Horticulutre                 11               23.99 Manufacture               The assumption is this is
                                                        of other non-metallic   377     largely used for light weight
                                                        mineral products                aggregate
                                                        n.e.c.

          Filler                       6

Pumice    Building blocks              38   (SCRREEN,   23.99 Manufacture               The assumption is this is
                                            2023d)      of other non-metallic   377     largely used for light weight
                                                        mineral products                aggregate
                                                        n.e.c.

          Horticulture & landscaping   38               23.99 Manufacture               The assumption is this is
                                                        of other non-metallic   377     largely used for light weight
                                                        mineral products                aggregate
                                                        n.e.c.

          Concrete aggregate           15               23.61 Manufacture
                                                        of concrete products    1,480



214
                                                                for construction
                                                                purposes

                  Abrasives & cleaning        8

                  Other                       1

Pyrophyllite      Cement                      56    Based on    23.51 Manufacture
                                                   Hida and     of cement             148
                                                   Kitagawa
                                                   (2006) and
                  Ceramics and refractories   12                23.2 Manufacture of    149
                                                   BGS
                                                                refractory products   341
                                                   knowledge
                                                                23.4 Manufacture of
                                                                other porcelain and
                                                                ceramic products

                  Glass (fibres)              18                23.14 Manufacture
                                                                of glass fibres       199

Industrial salt   Chloralkali production      28   (SCRREEN,    20.13 Manufacture
                                                   2023d)       of other inorganic    1,074
                                                                basic chemical

                  Soda-ash production         25                20.13 Manufacture
                                                                of other inorganic    1,074
                                                                basic chemicals

                  De-icing                    15                08.93 Extraction of           Mapped to this to capture
                                                                salt                  93      the production of salt not
                                                                                              the sector




215
                Food/feed               12                 20.13 Manufacture               Added to food in chemical
                                                           of other inorganic     1,074   form e.g. salt
                                                           basic chemicals

                Water softening         5

                Other                   15

Industrial      Construction and soil   37   (European     23.32 Manufacture       635
(silica) sand                                Commission,   of bricks, tiles and   341
                                             2024)         construction
                                                           products, in baked
                                                           clay
                                                           23.4 Manufacture of
                                                           other porcelain and
                                                           ceramic products

                Glass making            31                 23.1 Manufacture of
                                                           glass and glass        1,428
                                                           products

                Foundry casting         10                 23.2 Manufacture of
                                                           refractory products    149

                Si metal and FeSi       3

                Chemicals               3

                Other                   16




216
Talc   Polymer for cars     34   (SCRREEN,   20.16 Manufacture
                                 2023d)      of plastics in primary   1,475
                                             forms

       Paper                21               17.2 Manufacture of
                                             articles of paper and    3,060
                                             paperboard

       Paint and coatings   18               20.3 Manufacture of
                                             paints, varnishes        1,448
                                             and similar coatings,
                                             printing ink and
                                             mastics

       Feed                 8

       Building material    7

       Fetilisers           4

       Rubber               2

       Cosmetics            1

       Pharmaceuticals      1

       Other                4




217
Vermiculite   Agriculture             32   (SCRREEN,   23.99 Manufacture             The assumption is that this
                                           2023d)      of other non-metallic   377   is largely used to improve
                                                       mineral products              soil water retention
                                                       n.e.c.

              Lightweight aggregate   25               23.99 Manufacture             The assumption is that this
                                                       of other non-metallic   377   is largely used for light
                                                       mineral products              weight aggregate
                                                       n.e.c.

              Insulation              13               23.99 Manufacture
                                                       of other non-metallic   377
                                                       mineral products
                                                       n.e.c.

              Other                   30




218
Appendix 8 UK mine production, mineral resources
status and past production
This table is a synthesis of relevant UK mining data and information, namely:
   •   recent UK mineral production, averaged over 2018 to 2022, including 2022 specifically
       to indicate current production rate (Bide et al., 2024)
   •   mineral resources status: current (formal code-based resources), historic (old, non-code
       compliant estimates of mineral resources), unknown (not known if there is UK
       mineralisation) ((Bide et al., 2020b; Bide et al., 2022); BGS expert knowledge)
   •   historical production: yes or no (no comment or note on scale as this is contextual to the
       period in which that production occurred. For example, UK Fe ore production peaked at
       20 million tonnes in 1942, compared to world production of 235 million tonnes in the
       same year, yet world production is now 2500 million tonnes. As such, the cumulative
       amount of Fe ore was historically very significant for the UK, although in comparison to
       other countries it would now appear more modest. All data from (Bide et al., 2024; Idoine
       et al., 2024; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024b; U.S. Geological Survey, 2024a), and earlier
       editions of these reports.




219
Material                Average annual    Production   Mineral     Historical
                        production 2018   in 2022      resources   UK
                        to 2022                        status      production

Aluminium (bauxite)     -                 -            Unknown     Yes

Antimony (Sb)           -                 -            Unknown     Yes

Arsenic (As)            -                 -            Unknown     Yes

Beryllium (Be)          -                 -            Unknown     No

Bismuth (Bi)            -                 -            Unknown     Yes

Cadmium (Cd)                                           Unknown     No

Chromium (Cr)           -                 -            Unknown     Yes

Cobalt (Co)             -                 -            Historic    Yes

Copper (Cu)             -                 -            Current     Yes

Gallium (Ga)            -                 -            Unknown     No

Germanium (Ge)          -                 -            Unknown     No

Gold (Au)               0.085             0.27         Current     Yes

Hafnium (Hf)            -                 -            Unknown     No

Helium (He)             -                 -            Unknown     No

Indium (In)             -                 -            Unknown     No

Iridium (Ir)            -                 -            Unknown     No

Iron (Fe) (as Fe ore)   -                 -            Historic    Yes

Lead (Pb)               -                 -            Current     Yes

Lithium (Li)            -                 -            Current     No

Magnesium (Mg)          -                 -            Unknown     Yes




220
Material              Average annual   Production   Mineral     Historical
                      production       in 2022      resources   UK
                      2018-2022                     status      production

Manganese (Mn)        -                -            Unknown     Yes

Molybdenum (Mo)       -                -            Unknown     No

Nickel (Ni)           -                -            Current     Yes

Niobium (Nb)          -                -            Unknown     No

Palladium (Pd)        -                -            Unknown     No

Phosphorus (P)        -                -            Historic    Yes

Platinum (Pt)         -                -            Unknown     No

Potassium (K salts)   739,200          953,000      Current     Yes

Rare earth elements   -                -            Unknown     No

Rhenium (Re)          -                -            Unknown     No

Rhodium (Rh)          -                -            Unknown     No

Ruthenium (Ru)        -                -            Unknown     No

Selenium (Se)         -                -            Unknown     No

Silicon (Si metal)    -                -            Unknown     No

Silver (Ag)           0.4              1.34         Current     Yes

Sodium (Na)           -                -            Unknown     Yes

Strontium (Sr)        -                -            Historic    Yes

Sulphur (S)                                         Unknown     Yes

Tantalum (Ta)         -                -            Unknown     No

Tellurium (Te)        -                -            Unknown     No




221
Tin (Sn)               40A              0            Current     Yes

Titanium (Ti)          -                -            Unknown     No

Tungsten (W)           240A             0            Current     Yes

Uranium (U)            -                -            Unknown     Yes

Vanadium (V)           -                -            Unknown     No

Zinc (Zn)              -                -            Current     Yes

Zirconium (Zr)         -                -            Unknown     No

Barite                 39,800           30,000       Current     Yes

Bentonite clay         -                -            Unknown     No

Borates                -                -            Unknown     No

Clay and shale         4,020,000        4,004,000    Current     Yes

Diamonds (natural)     -                -            Unknown     No

Diatomite              -                -            Unknown     Yes

Feldspar               -                -            Unknown     Yes




Material               Average annual   Production   Mineral     Historical
                       production       in 2022      resources   UK
                       2018-2022                     status      production

FluorsparB             13,540B          12,700B      Historic    Yes

Garnet                 -                -            Unknown     No

Gypsum (natural)       1,820,000        2,400,000    Current     Yes

Graphite (natural)     -                -            Unknown     Yes

Industrial limestone   no dataC         no dataC     Historic    Yes




222
    Industrial salt            2,679,000      2,588,000     Historic       Yes

    Industrial (silica) sand   5,033,000      4,931,000     Historic       Yes

    Kaolin (china) clay        757,900        709,000       Current        Yes

    Kyanite                    -              -             Unknown        No

    Magnesite                  -              -             Unknown        No

    Perlite                    -              -             Historic       Yes

    Pumice                     -              -             Unknown        No

    Pyrite                     -              -             Unknown        Yes

    Pyrophyllite               -              -             Unknown        No

    Talc                       2,000          3,000         Historic       Yes

    Vermiculite                -              -             Unknown        No

    Wollastonite               -              -             Unknown        No

    Zeolite                    -              -             Unknown        No

A
 Production was in 2018 only (none from 2019 to 2022). BFluorspar mining ceased in the UK in
mid-2023. CProduction data is only reported for total construction aggregates, including chalk,
igneous rock, limestone, dolomite and sandstone.




223
Glossary
AC       Apparent consumption

AI       Artificial intelligence

BGS      British Geological Survey

CA       Criticality assessment

CMF      Companion metal fraction

CMIC     Critical Minerals Intelligence Centre

DBT      Department for Business and Trade

EoL      End-of-life

EoLRIR   End-of-life recycling input rate

EoLRR    End-of-life recycling rate

EPI      Environmental performance index

ESG      Environmental, social and governance [indicator]

GTC      Global trade concentration

GVA      Gross value added

HDI      Human development index

HHI      Hirschman-Herfindahl index

HS       Harmonised system [codes]

kg       Kilograms

NIR      Net import reliance

PCI      Production concentration indicator

PGEs     Platinum group elements: ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium and
         platinum

PV       Photovoltaic

REEs     Rare earth elements: the 15 lanthanoids plus scandium and yttrium

REOs     REE oxides

RIR      See EoLRIR

S        Global supply risk (when not sulphur)

SIC      Standard industrial classification [codes]

224
t      Metric tonnes

UKRI   UK Research and Innovation

USGS   US Geological Survey

V      UK economic vulnerability (when not vanadium)

WEEE   Waste electrical and electronic equipment

WGI    World governance index




225
References
British Geological Survey holds most of the references listed below, and copies may be
obtained via the library service subject to copyright legislation (contact libuser@bgs.ac.uk for
details). The library catalogue is available at: https://of-ukrinerc.olib.oclc.org/folio/.

4He resources. 2024. The helium supply problem. (UK: Helium resources limited.) Available:
       https://www.4he-resources.com/Helium%20supply.php [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Adnan, M, Xiao, B, Ali, M U, Xiao, P, Zhao, P, Wang, H & Bibi, S 2024. Heavy metals pollution
      from smelting activities: A threat to soil and groundwater. Ecotoxicology and
      Environmental Safety. 274, 116189. Available:
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.116189.

Alberici, S, de Beer, J, van der Hoorn, I & Staats, M. 2017. Fly ash and blast furnance slag for
        cement manufacturing. Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
        Research paper number 19. (Online: Available:
        https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/cement-manufacturing-use-of-fly-ash-and-
        blast-furnace-slag [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

Ali, M A, Ahmed, H A, Ahmed, H M & Hefni, M 2021. Pyrophyllite: an economic mineral for
        different industrial applications. Applied Sciences. 11, 11357.

Ali, S H, Giurco, D, Arndt, N, Nickless, E, Brown, G, Demetriades, A, Durrheim, R, Enriquez, M
        A, Kinnaird, J, Littleboy, A, Meinert, L D, Oberhänsli, R, Salem, J, Schodde, R,
        Schneider, G, Vidal, O & Yakovleva, N 2017. Mineral supply for sustainable
        development requires resource governance. Nature. 543, 367-372. Available:
        10.1038/nature21359.

Alp, İ, Deveci, H, Yazıcı, E Y, Türk, T & Süngün, Y H 2009. Potential use of pyrite cinders as
         raw material in cement production: Results of industrial scale trial operations. Journal of
         Hazardous Materials. 166, 144-149. Available:
         https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2008.10.129.

Aluminium Federation. 2020. UK Aluminium Industry Fact Sheet 5. Aluminium Recycling.
       Available: https://www.alfed.org.uk/files/Fact%20sheets/5-aluminium-recycling.pdf
       [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Anonymous. 1942a. The Mineral Industry: Its Statistics, Technology and Trade 1940. McGraw-
      Hill Book Company Years 1892 to 1940 (see also the Internet Archive:
      www.archive.org). (New York, USA:

Anonymous. 1942b. The Mineral Industry: Its Statistics, Technology and Trade 1940. (New
      York, USA: McGraw-Hill Book Company.) ISBN: 1258681471. Years 1892 to 1940 (see
      also the Internet Archive: www.archive.org).

Argus Media. 2024. Argus Metals. Available: https://metals.argusmedia.com/

Asenov, G. 19 July 2023. China restrictions on gallium and germanium 'harmful' to US
      chipmakers. Available: https://www.fastmarkets.com/insights/china-restrictions-on-
      gallium-germanium-harmful-us-chipmakers [Accessed: 11 October 2024].

Australian Government. 2024. Australia’s Critical Minerals List and Strategic Materials List. 20
        June 2023; updated 20 Febrary 2024. (Online: Critical Minerals Office, Department of
        Industry, Science and Resources.) Available:

226
       https://www.industry.gov.au/publications/australias-critical-minerals-list-and-strategic-
       materials-list [Accessed: 4 November 2024].

Bae, H & Kim, Y 2021. Technologies of lithium recycling from waste lithium ion batteries: a
       review. Materials Advances. 2, 3234-3250. Available:
       https://doi.org/10.1039/D1MA00216C [Accessed: 28 September 2024].

Baldé, C P, Kuehr, R, Yamamoto, T, McDonald, R, D'Angelo, E & Althaf, S, Bel, G, Deubzer, O,
       Fernandez-Cubillo, E, Forti, V, Heart, S, Honda, S, Iattoni, G, Khetriwal, D S, Luda di
       Cortemiglia, V, Lobuntsova, Y, Nnorom, I, Pralat, N & Wagner, M. 2024. Global E-Waste
       Monitor 2024. International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and United Nations Institute
       for Training and Research (UNITAR), (Geneva, Switzerland / Bonn, Germany,:
       UNITAR.) Available: https://api.globalewaste.org/publications/file/297/Global-E-waste-
       Monitor-2024.pdf [Accessed: 27 October 2024].

Barnett, S & Wentworth, J. 2024. The future of fertiliser use. UNITED KINGDOM
       PARLIMENTARY OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. (Online: United Kingdom
       Parliment.) Available: https://post.parliament.uk/research-briefings/post-pn-0710/
       [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

Baskaran, G. 2024. What China’s Ban on Rare Earths Processing Technology Exports Means.
      Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). 8 January 2024. (Online: CSIS.)
      Available: https://www.csis.org/analysis/what-chinas-ban-rare-earths-processing-
      technology-exports-means [Accessed: 1 August 2024].

Baskaran, G & Schwartz, M. 2024. China’s Antimony Export Restrictions: The Impact on U.S.
      National Security. Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). 20 August 2024.
      (Online: CSIS.) Available: https://www.csis.org/analysis/chinas-antimony-export-
      restrictions-impact-us-national-security [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Bedder, J. 2024a. Chip wars: China restricts exports of gallium and germanium. (Online: Project
      Blue.) Available: https://projectblue.com/blue/news-analysis/503/chip-wars:-china-
      restricts-exports-of-gallium-and-germanium [Accessed: 2024].

Bedder, J. 2024b. What will China’s antimony export restrictions mean for the market? (Online:
      Project Blue.) Available: https://projectblue.com/blue/opinion-pieces/989/what-will-
      china%E2%80%99s-antimony-export-restrictions-mean-for-the-market [Accessed: 15
      August].

Belda, C. 2024. Western antimony trade faces mounting difficulties. Argus Metals. 21 August
       2024. (Online: Argus News & analysis.) Available:
       https://metals.argusmedia.com/newsandanalysis/article/2600305 [Accessed: 2024].

Belda, C, Morris, S & Saklatvala, E. 2023. China’s Ga, Ge export controls may deter EU trade.
       Argus Media. 12 September 2023. (Online: Argus Metals.) Available:
       https://metals.argusmedia.com/newsandanalysis/article/2488372?keywords=china%e2
       %80%99s%20ga%2c%20ge%20export%20controls%20may%20deter%20eu%20trade&
       returnparams= [Accessed: 4 November 2024].

Bide, T, Bloodworth, A & Kendall, R. 2021. Mineral Planning Factsheet: Coal. British Geological
       Survey OR/21/028. (Nottingham, United Kingdom: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)
       [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

Bide, T, Brown, T, Idoine, N & Mankelow, J. 2020a. Mineral planning factsheet: silica sand.
       British Geological Survey Available: https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/527215/
       [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

227
Bide, T, Brown, T J, Gunn, A G & Mankelow, J 2020b. Utilisation of multiple current and legacy
       datasets to create a national minerals inventory: A UK case study. Resources Policy. 66,
       10 pages. Available: 10.1016/j.resourpol.2020.101654.

Bide, T, Horn, S, Gunn, A, Price, F, Mitchell, C & Patton, M. 2022. Securing sustainable supply
       of critical raw materials for the UK, current issues and recommendations for
       improvement. British Geological Survey OR/22/034. (Keyworth: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL
       SURVEY.) Available: https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/533871/

Bide, T, Idoine, N E, Evans, E, Raycraft, E R & Mankelow, J. 2024. United Kingdom Minerals
       Yearbook 2023. British Geological Survey OR/24/025. (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH
       GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) Available: https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/537480/
       [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Binnemans, K, Jones, P T, Blanpain, B, Van Gerven, T & Pontikes, Y 2015. Towards Zero-
      Waste Valorisation of Rare-Earth-Containing Industrial Process Residues: A Critical
      Review. Journal of Cleaner Production. 99, pp 17-38.

Bleiwas, D I & Miller, M M. 2014. Barite—A Case Study of Import Reliance on an Essential
       Material for Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Drilling. U.S. Geological Survey
       (Online: U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) Available:
       https://pubs.usgs.gov/sir/2014/5230/pdf/sir2014-5230.pdf [Accessed: 4 November
       2024].

Bleiwas, D I & Miller, M M. 2015. Barite: a case study of import reliance on an essential material
       for oil and gas exploration and development drilling. US Geological Survey 2328-0328.
       [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

Block, S, Emerson, J W, Esty, D C, de Sherbinin, A, Wendling, Z A & et al. 2024. 2024
       Environmental Performance Index. Yale Center for Environmental Law & Policy, (New
       Haven, CT: YALE CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL LAW & POLICY.) Available:
       https://epi.yale.edu/ [Accessed: 24 April 2024].

Bloodworth, A, Wrighton, C, Highley, D & Bate, R. 2009. Mineral planning factsheet: kaolin.
      British Geological Survey (Mineral planning factsheet) (Unpublished): Available:
      https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/534429/ [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

BRGM. 2020. Criticality assessment - Silicon metal. (Online: French Geological Survey
     (BRGM).), https://www.mineralinfo.fr/sites/default/files/documents/2020-
     12/materialcriticalitysiliconmetal-public20191030.pdf [Accessed: 25 May 2023].

Brooking, F. 2024. Recycling Statistics: The UK Recycling Rate Of Plastic Is Just 17%. Pebble
       Magazine.) Available: https://pebblemag.com/recycling-statistics-uk/ [Accessed: 22
       November, 2024].

Brunning, A. 2014. The Chemical Elements of a Smartphone. 19 February 2014. (Online:
       Compound Interest.) Available: https://www.compoundchem.com/2014/02/19/the-
       chemical-elements-of-a-smartphone/ [Accessed: 4 November 2024].

Bundesanstalt für Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe. 2021. Tantalum – Sustainability
      Information. Bundesanstalt für Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe (BGR) (Hannover,
      Germany: Available:
      www.bgr.bund.de/EN/Themen/Min_rohstoffe/Produkte/Informationen_zur_Nachhaltigkeit
      /tantalum_verzeichnis_en.html




228
Bureau of International Recycling. 2024. Non-ferrous metals. Available:
      https://archive.bir.org/industry/non-ferrous-metals [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

CAS Science Team. 2022. A Review of the Current Methods and Global Developments.
      American Chemical Society.) Available: https://www.cas.org/resources/cas-
      insights/lithium-ion-battery-recycling [Accessed: 21 November, 2024].

Ciacci, L, de Matos, C T, Reck, B K, Wittmer, D, Bernardi, E, Mathieux, F & Passarini, F 2022.
        Material system analysis: Characterization of flows, stocks, and performance indicators
        of manganese, nickel, and natural graphite in the EU, 2012–2016. Journal of Industrial
        Ecology. 26, 1247-1260.

Cobalt Institute. 2023. Cobalt Market Report 2022. Cobalt Institute, data from Benchmark
       Mineral Intelligence (Online: COBALT INSTITUTE.) Available:
       https://www.cobaltinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Cobalt-Market-Report-
       2022_final.pdf [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Cobalt Institute. 2024. Cobalt Value Chain Mapping. Available:
       https://www.cobaltinstitute.org/cobalt-sourcing-responsability/cobalt-value-chain/
       [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Conceição, P, Calderón, C, Pavez Esbry, F G, Moumita, Hsu, Y-C, Ismail, G, Lengfelder, C L,
      Brian , Mirza, T, Mohammed, R P, Josefin , Kumar Shrestha, S, Tapia, H, Rivera
      Vázquez, C, Yokoi, Y & Zhang, Y. 2022. Human Development Report 2021/2022. United
      Nations Development Programme (New York, USA: UNITED NATIONS
      DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME.) Available:
      https://hdr.undp.org/system/files/documents/global-report-document/hdr2021-
      22pdf_1.pdf [Accessed: 18 April 2023].

Cowley, A 2024. PGM Market Report May 2024. matthey.com/en/products-and-markets/pgms-
      and-circularity/pgm-markets/pgm-market-reports.

Cui, R, Guo, J, Yin, L, Huy, D & Liedtke, M. 2016. Supply and demand of lithium and gallium.
        (China and Germany: Information Center of Ministry of Land and Resources, China.
        Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources, Germany.),
        https://www.bgr.bund.de/EN/Themen/Min_rohstoffe/Downloads/studie_Li_Ga.pdf
        [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Currie, D & Elliott, H. 2024a. The potential for platinum group elements in the UK. Available:
        https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/534415/

Currie, D & Elliott, H. 2024b. The potential for rare earth elements in the UK. British Geological
        Survey, Critical Minerals Intelligence Centre (Online: DEPARTMENT FOR BUSINESS
        AND TRADE.) Available: https://ukcmic.org/downloads/reports/the-potential-for-rare-
        earth-elements-in-the-uk-2024.pdf [Accessed: 22 May 2024].

Curwick, L, Petersen, W, DeBarbadillo, J, Forest, S & Suffern, N. 1980. Superalloy scrap-
      generation and recycling. 21-30 in: Superalloys 1980. (United States: ASM Metals Park.)

Deady, E, Moon, C, Moore, K, Goodenough, K & Shail, R K 2022. Bismuth: economic geology
      and value chains. Ore Geology Reviews. 143, 104722. Available:
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oregeorev.2022.104722.

Deady, E A, Goodenough, K M, Currie, D, Lacinska, A, Grant, H, Patton, M, Cooper, M, Josso,
      P, Shaw, R, Everett, P & Bide, T. 2023. Potential for Critical Raw Material Prospectivity
      in the UK. British Geological Survey (Keyworth: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

229
       Available: https://ukcmic.org/reports/ukcmic-potential-for-critical-raw-material-
       prospectivity-in-the-uk-cr23024.pdf

Deloitte. 2023. The economic value of government precompetitive geoscience data and
        analysis for Australia’s resources industry. Prepared by Deloitte Access Economics for
        Geoscience Australia (Canberra, Australia: GEOSCIENCE AUSTRALIA.) Available:
        https://d28rz98at9flks.cloudfront.net/148640/148640_00_0.PDF

Department for Energy Security and Net Zero. 2024. Energy Trends: UK renewables. GOV.UK
      (Online: UK GOVERNMENT.) Available:
      https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/energy-trends-section-6-renewables
      [Accessed: 16 October 2024].

Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs. 2024. UK statistics on waste. Available:
      https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/uk-waste-data/uk-statistics-on-waste
      [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Department for Transport, The Rt Hon Richard Holden MP & The Rt Hon Jesse Norman MP.
      2023. Government invests £200 million to drive innovation and get more zero emission
      trucks on our roads. 19 October 2023. (Online: GOV.UK.) Available:
      https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-invests-200-million-to-drive-
      innovation-and-get-more-zero-emission-trucks-on-our-roads [Accessed: 16 October
      2024].

Depraiter, L & Goutte, S 2023. The role and challenges of rare earths in the energy transition.
       Resources Policy. 86, 104137. Available:
       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2023.104137.

Drexhage, J, La Porta, D, Hund, K, McCormick, M & Ningthoujam, J. 2017. The Growing Role of
      Minerals and Metals for a Low Carbon Future. World Bank (Washington DC, USA:
      WORLD BANK.) Available:
      https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/ar/207371500386458722/pdf/117581-WP-
      P159838-PUBLIC-ClimateSmartMiningJuly.pdf [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Dupont, D, Arnout, S, Jones, P T & Binnemans, K 2016. Antimony recovery from end-of-life
      products and industrial process residues: a critical review. Journal of Sustainable
      Metallurgy. 2, 79-103.

ECGA. 2022. Main uses of Carbon and Graphite. (Online: European Carbon and Graphite
      Association (ECGA) data from Wood MacKenzie.) Available: https://ecga.net/main-uses-
      of-graphite/ [Accessed: 25 May 2023].

El Bojaddayni, I, Küçük, M E, El Ouardi, Y, Jilal, I, El Barkany, S, Moradi, K, Repo, E,
       Laatikainen, K & Ouammou, A 2023. A review on synthesis of zeolites from natural clay
       resources and waste ash: Recent approaches and progress. Minerals Engineering. 198,
       108086.

EuRIC AISBL. 2020. Metal Recycling Factsheet. EuRIC AISBL – Recycling: Bridging Circular
      Economy & Climate Policy. Brussels Available:
      https://circulareconomy.europa.eu/platform/sites/default/files/euric_metal_recycling_facts
      heet.pdf [Accessed: 23 July 2024].

EuRIC AISBL. Undated. Metal Recycling Factsheet. EuRIC AISBL, (Online: EURIC AISBL.)
      Available:
      https://circulareconomy.europa.eu/platform/sites/default/files/euric_metal_recycling_facts
      heet.pdf [Accessed: 23 July 2024].

230
European Aluminium. 2021. Risk of Europe-wide shutdowns due to Chinese magnesium supply
      shortage. Available: https://european-aluminium.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/2021-
      09-27-position-paper_impact-of-imminent-short-1.pdf [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

European Commission. 2023. Study on the Critical Raw Materials for the EU 2023 - Final
      Report. Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs,
      European Commission 978-92-68-00414-2. (Brussels, Belgium: EUROPEAN UNION.)
      Available: https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2873/725585 [Accessed: 14 April 2023].

European Commission. 2024. Raw Materials Profiles. (Online: Raw Materials Information
      System.) Available: https://rmis.jrc.ec.europa.eu/rmp/ [Accessed: 4 Novemeber 2024].

European Commission, Directorate-General for Internal Market, I, Entrepreneurship, SMEs,
      Blengini, G, El Latunussa, C, Eynard, U, Torres De Matos, C, Wittmer, D, Georgitzikis,
      K, Pavel, C, Carrara, S, Mancini, L, Unguru, M, Blagoeva, D, Mathieux, F & Pennington,
      D. 2020a. Study on the EU's list of critical raw materials (2020) : final report. European
      Commission (Luxembourg: EUROPEAN UNION.) Available:
      https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2873/11619 [Accessed: 6 April 2023].

European Commission, Directorate-General for Internal Market, I, Entrepreneurship, SMEs,
      Blengini, G, El Latunussa, C, Eynard, U, Torres De Matos, C, Wittmer, D, Georgitzikis,
      K, Pavel, C, Carrara, S, Mancini, L, Unguru, M, Grohol, M, Mathieux, F & Pennington, D.
      2020b. Study on the EU’s list of critical raw materials (2020): critical raw materials
      factsheets. European Commission (Luxembourg: EUROPEAN UNION.) Available:
      https://doi.org/10.2873/92480 [Accessed: 28 September 2023].

European Commission, C, S.,, Bobba, S, Blagoeva, D, Alves Dias, P, Cavalli, A, Georgitzikis, K,
      Grohol, M, Itul, A, Kuzov, T, Latunussa, C, Lyons, L, Malano, G, Maury, T, Prior Arce, A,
      Somers, J, Telsnig, T, Veeh, C, Wittmer, D, Black, C, Pennington, D & Christou, M.
      2023. Supply chain analysis and material demand forecast in strategic technologies and
      sectors in the EU – A foresight study. European Commission (Luxembourg: EUROPEAN
      UNION.) Available: https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2760/386650 [Accessed: 17 August
      2023].

European Parliament Briefing. 2024. New EU regulatory framework for batteries: Setting
      sustainability requirements. European Parliamentary Research Service Available:
      https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/BRIE/2021/689337/EPRS_BRI(2021)6
      89337_EN.pdf [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

European Union. 2024. Regulation (EU) 2024/1252 of the European Parliament and of the
      Council of 11 April 2024 establishing a framework for ensuring a secure and sustainable
      supply of critical raw materials and amending Regulations (EU) No 168/2013, (EU)
      2018/858, (EU) 2018/1724 and (EU) 2019/1020 (Text with EEA relevance). UNION, O J
      O T E. (Online: Official Journal of the European Union.) Available: https://eur-
      lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:L_202401252 [Accessed: 4 November
      2024].

Foundary Management & Technology. 2020. A New Look at Recycling Green Sand Wastes.
      (Ohio, United States: Foundry Management & Technology.) Available:
      https://www.foundrymag.com/molds-cores/article/21125856/new-look-at-recycling-green-
      sand-imerys-high-temperature-solutions?cid=eml-web [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Godek, S. 2023. Why China’s Export Controls on Germanium and Gallium May Not Be
      Effective. 19 July. (Online: Stimson Center.) Available:
      https://www.stimson.org/2023/why-chinas-export-controls-on-germanium-and-gallium-
      may-not-be-effective/ [Accessed: 3 October 2024].

231
Grady, B P 2024a. Sulfur: Long-term outlook for a critical element for surfactant production.
       Journal of Surfactants and Detergents. n/a, Available: https://doi.org/10.1002/jsde.12741
       [Accessed: 2024/10/22].

Grady, B P 2024b. Sulfur: Long-term outlook for a critical element for surfactant production.
       Journal of Surfactants and Detergents. 27, 857-862. Available:
       https://doi.org/10.1002/jsde.12741 [Accessed: 22 October 2024].

Graedel, T E, Reck, B K & Miatto, A 2022. Alloy information helps prioritize material criticality
      lists. Nature Communications. 13, 150. Available: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-
      27829-w [Accessed: 29 September 2023].

Griswold, M. 2019. Driving nickel recovery. Recycling Today.) Available:
       https://www.recyclingtoday.com/article/driving-nickel-scrap-
       recovery/#:~:text=Stainless%20steel%20serves%20as%20a,percent%20of%20nickel%2
       0is%20recycled [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

Gunn, A & Deady, E. 2022a. The potential for nickel in the UK. Available:
      https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/535662/

Gunn, A & Deady, E. 2022b. The potential for cobalt in the UK. Available:
      https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/535247/

Harben, P W. 1999. The industrial minerals handybook : a guide to markets, specifications, &
      prices. Edition: 3rd. (London, UK: Metal Bulletin PLC.) ISBN: 1900663511;
      9781900663519.

Harben, P W. 2002. Pumice and Scoria. 274-276 in: The Industrial Minerals HandyBook.
      Edition: 4th. (London, United Kingdom: Industrial Minerals Information.) ISBN: 1-
      904333-04-4.

Harrison, D, Highley, D, Bloodworth, A & Bate, R. 2006. Mineral planning factsheet: limestone.
       British Geological Survey. (Mineral Planning Factsheet) (Unpublished) Available:
       https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/534436/ [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

Helvacı, C 2017. Borate deposits: An overview and future forecast with regard to mineral
       deposits. Journal of Boron. 2, 59-70.

Herrero de Egaña, A, Vivancos, J & García-Cortés, Á 2020. Impact analysis and update to 2018
       of the economic and social value of the MAGNA Plan (geological mapping at 1:50,000
       scale). Boletín Geológico y Minero. 131, 817-829.
       https://bgm.revistas.csic.es/index.php/bgm/article/view/106 [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Hida, T & Kitagawa, R. 2006. Pyrophyllite. 755-767 in: Industrial Minerals and Rocks:
       Commodities, Markets and Uses. Edition: 7th. (USA: Society for Mining, Metallurgy, and
       Exploration, Inc.) ISBN: 0873352491.

Highley, D B, Andrew; Bate, Richard 2006. Mineral planning factsheet : gypsum. British
       Geological Survey. 7. https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/534434 [Accessed: 22 November
       2024].

HM Goverment. 2024. Invest 2035: the UK’s modern industrial strategy. (London, United
     Kingdom: Available: https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/invest-2035-the-uks-
     modern-industrial-strategy




232
HM Revenue & Customs. 2024. Overseas trade data. (Online: UK Trade Info.) Available:
     https://www.uktradeinfo.com/trade-data/ots-custom-table/ [Accessed: 1 April 2024].

Home, A. 2024. China fires latest warning signal with antimony controls. Reuters. Commodities.
      Available: https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/china-fires-latest-warning-
      signal-with-antimony-controls-2024-08-28 [Accessed: 2024-08-28T23:01:00Z].

Hsu, J. 2024. Will semiconductor production be derailed by Hurricane Helene? New Scientist.
        Available: https://www.newscientist.com/article/2450715-will-semiconductor-production-
        be-derailed-by-hurricane-helene/ [Accessed: 4 October 2024].

Idoine, N, Raycraft, E, Hobbs, S, Everett, P, Evans, E, Mills, A, Currie, D, Horn, S & Shaw, R.
        2024. World mineral production 2018-2022. British Geological Survey (Keyworth:
        BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) Available: https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/537241/

IMA Europe. 2023. Recycling of industrial mineral applications Contribution to circular
      economy. IMA-Europe AISBL, Twin Gardens, Belgium Available: https://ima-
      europe.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/IMA-Europe-Recycling-IM-2023-08-30-a-
      FINAL.pdf [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

International Aluminium. 2024. International Aluminium Institute publishes global recycling data.
        (London, UK: International Aluminium Institute (IAI).) Available: https://international-
        aluminium.org/international-aluminium-institute-publishes-global-recycling-data/
        [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

International Antimony Association. 2024. Antimony. (Brussels, Belgium: International Antimony
        Association.) Available: https://www.antimony.com/antimony-2/ [Accessed: 21 July
        2024].

International Cadmium Association. 2024a. Nickel-cadmium batteries are virtually 100%
        recyclable once they have been collected. (Brussels: The International Cadmium
        Association.) Available: https://cadmium.ionainteractive.com/recycling/ [Accessed: 21
        November 2024].

International Cadmium Association. 2024b. Application. World cadmium applications (2019).
        (Brussels: The International Cadmium Association.) Available: https://www.cadmium.org/
        [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

International Chromium Development Association. 2024. Applications. Chrome: a critical
        ingredient. (Paris, France: International Chromium Development Association.) Available:
        https://www.icdacr.com/applications [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

International Copper Association. 2022. Copper Recycling. International Copper Association,
        (Online: INTERNATIONAL COPPER ASSOCIATION.) Available:
        https://internationalcopper.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/ICA-RecyclingBrief-202201-
        A4-R2.pdf [Accessed: 23 July 2024].

International Energy Agency. 2018. Global EV Outlook 2018 - Towards cross-modal
        electrification. International Energy Agency (IEA) (Online: IEA.) Available:
        https://www.iea.org/reports/global-ev-outlook-2018 [Accessed: 17 January 2023].

International Energy Agency. 2021. End-of-life recycling rates for selected metals. (Paris,
        France: International Energy Agency.) Available: https://www.iea.org/data-and-
        statistics/charts/end-of-life-recycling-rates-for-selected-metals [Accessed: 22 November
        2024].



233
International Energy Agency. 2022. Global Battery Supply Chains of EV batteries. International
        Energy Agency (IEA) (Online: IEA.) Available:
        https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/4eb8c252-76b1-4710-8f5e-
        867e751c8dda/GlobalSupplyChainsofEVBatteries.pdf [Accessed: 25 January 2024].

International Energy Agency. 2024a. World Energy Outlook 2024. International Energy Agency
        (IEA) (Paris: IEA.) Available: https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2024
        [Accessed: 16 October 2024].

International Energy Agency. 2024b. Global EV Outlook 2024 - Moving towards increased
        affordability. International Energy Agency (IEA) (Paris: IEA.) Available:
        https://www.iea.org/reports/global-ev-outlook-2024 [Accessed: 16 October 2024].

International Energy Agency. 2024c. Announcement on the Implementation of Export Control of
        Items Related to Gallium and Germanium. Available: https://www.iea.org/policies/17893-
        announcement-on-the-implementation-of-export-control-of-items-related-to-gallium-and-
        germanium

International Energy Agency. 2024d. Global critical minerals outlook 2024. International Energy
        Agency (IEA) (Online: IEA.) Available:
        https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/ee01701d-1d5c-4ba8-9df6-
        abeeac9de99a/GlobalCriticalMineralsOutlook2024.pdf [Accessed: 4 June 2024].

International Lead & Zinc Study Group. 2023a. What Is Zinc. (Lisbon, Portugal: International
        Lead & Zinc Study Group.) Available: https://www.ilzsg.org/what-is-zinc/ [Accessed: 22
        November 2024].

International Lead & Zinc Study Group. 2023b. What Is Lead. (Lisbon, Portugal: International
        Lead and Zinc Study Group.) Available: https://www.ilzsg.org/what-is-lead/ [Accessed:
        21 November 2024].

International Lead Association. 2024. Using lead responsibly is critical to achieving a
        sustainable and low carbon future. (London, UK: International Lead Association.)
        Available: https://ila-lead.org/sustainability/ [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

International Magnesium Association. 2024. Recycling Magnesium. (Minneapolis, USA:
        International Magnesium Association (IMA).) Available:
        https://www.intlmag.org/page/sustain_recycle_ima

International Molybdenum Association. 2015. A sustainable world with Molybdenum.
        International Molybdenum Association (IMOA), London, UK Available:
        https://www.imoa.info/download_files/sustainability/Sustainability-brochure-2015.pdf
        [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

International Molybdenum Association. 2024. Uses of new Molybdenum. (London, UK:
        International Molybdenum Association.) Available: https://www.imoa.info/molybdenum-
        uses/molybdenum-uses.php [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

International Tin Association. 2020. Tin Recycling. (Unit 3, Curo Park, Frogmore, St. Albans,
        Hertfordshire, AL2 2DD, UK: International Tin Association.) Available:
        https://www.internationaltin.org/recycling/ [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

International Tin Association. 2021. ITA Study – Tin surfed the pandemic wave. (Unit 3, Curo
        Park, Frogmore, St. Albans, Hertfordshire, AL2 2DD, UK: International Tin Association.)
        Available: https://www.internationaltin.org/ita-study-tin-surfed-the-pandemic-wave/
        [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

234
International Trade Centre. 2024. Trade Map. (Online: International Trade Centre.) Available:
        https://www.trademap.org/Index.aspx [Accessed: 1 April 2024].

International Tungsten Industry Association. 2024. Applications & Markets. The International
        Tungsten Industry Association (ITIA).) Available: https://www.itia.info/applications-
        markets/ [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

Jackson, R, Kemp, D, Rahman, A, Turner, T, Cave, S & Wildblood, R. 2024a. Study on future
      material requirements of the national grid infrastructures to reach Net-Zero. British
      Geological Survey via Decision Analysis Services Ltd (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH
      GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Jackson, R, Kemp, D, Rahman, A, Wilcox, M, Cave, S & Wildblood, R. 2024b. A UK foresight
      study of materials in decarbonisation technologies: the case of nuclear. British
      Geological Survey via Decision Analysis Services Ltd (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH
      GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Jia, H, Zhou, Y, Wang, A, Wang, G, Li, T, Wang, C, Xing, W, Ma, Z & Li, P 2022. Evolution of
        the anthropogenic gallium cycle in China from 2005 to 2020. Frontiers in Energy
        Research. 10, 944617.

Johnson Matthey plc. 2024a. PGM Market report May 2024 (Excel file). (London, UK: Johnson
      Matthey.), https://matthey.com/en/products-and-markets/pgms-and-circularity/pgm-
      markets/pgm-market-reports [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Johnson Matthey Plc. 2024b. PGMs and circularity. (Online: Johnson Matthey Plc.) Available:
      https://matthey.com/products-and-markets/pgms-and-circularity [Accessed: 28 October
      2024].

Josso, P & Lusty, P. 2023. The potential for manganese in the UK. Available:
       https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/536560/

Josso, P, Lusty, P A J, Gunn, A G, Shaw, R A, Singh, N, Horn, S & Petavratzi, E. 2023. Review
       and development of the methodology and data used to produce the UK criticality
       assessment of technology-critical minerals. British Geological Survey (Online: BRITISH
       GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) Available: https://ukcmic.org/downloads/reports/ukcmic-
       review-and-development-of-the-methodology-and-data-used-to-produce-the-uk-
       criticality-assessment-of-technology-critical-minerals.pdf [Accessed: 20 December
       2023].

Kavlak, G & Graedel, T 2013. Global anthropogenic selenium cycles for 1940–2010.
       Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 73, 17-22.

Kumar, A, Thorbole, A & Gupta, R K 2025. Sustaining the future: Semiconductor materials and
      their recovery. Materials Science in Semiconductor Processing. 185, 108943. Available:
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mssp.2024.108943.

Kuzma, S, Saccoccia, L & Chertock, M. 2023. 25 Countries, Housing One-Quarter of the
      Population, Face Extremely High Water Stress. 16 August 2023. World Resources
      Institute.) Available: https://www.wri.org/insights/highest-water-stressed-countries

Leblanc, M & Billaud, P 1982. Cobalt Arsenide Orebodies Related to an Upper Proterozoic
       Ophiolite: Bou Azzer (Morocco). Economic Geology. 77, 162–175. Available:
       10.2113/gsecongeo.77.1.162.




235
Lederer, G W, Foley, N K, Jaskula, B W & Ayuso, R A. 2016. Beryllium – A Critical Mineral
      Commodity – Resources, Production, and Supply Chain (Fact Sheet). Mineral
      Resources Program, U.S. Geological Survey (Reston, VA, USA:

Liang, A & Marsh, N. 2023. Gallium and germanium: What China’s new move in microchip war
       means for world. BBC News. Business. (Online: British Broadcasting Corporation
       (BBC).) Available: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-66118831 [Accessed: 2
       August].

Lokanc, M, Eggert, R & M, R. 2015a. The availability of indium: the present, medium term, and
      long term. National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) (Colorado, United States:
      NREL.) Available: https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy16osti/62409.pdf [Accessed:
      25/05/2023].

Lokanc, M, Eggert, R & Redlinger, M. 2015b. The availability of indium: the present, medium
      term, and long term. National Renewable Energy Lab (NREL) (Colorado, USA:
      COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES.) Available:
      https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy16osti/62409.pdf [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Lunardi, M M, Alvarez-Gaitan, J P, Bilbao, J I & Corkish, R 2018. A review of recycling
       processes for photovoltaic modules. Solar Panels and Photovoltaic Materials. 30.

Lunk, H-J 2015. Discovery, properties and applications of chromium and its compounds.
       ChemTexts. 1, 6.

Lusty, P & Goodenough, K M. 2022. The potential for graphite in the UK. Available:
       https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/535252/

Lusty, P A J, Shaw, R A, Gunn, A G & Idoine, N E. 2021. UK criticality assessment of
       technology critical minerals and metals. British Geological Survey, CR/21/120.
       (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) Available:
       https://www.bgs.ac.uk/download/uk-criticality-assessment-of-technology-critical-
       minerals-and-metals/ [Accessed: 15 March 2023].

Lv, A, Liu, S, Nguyen, M, Devitt, P, Munroe, T & Lewis, B. 2024. Explainer: What is antimony
        and why is China curbing its exports? Reuters. 16 August 2024. (Online: Reuters.)
        Available: https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/what-is-antimony-why-is-china-
        curbing-its-exports-2024-08-16/ [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Lv, A & Patton, D. 2023. China export curbs choke off shipments of gallium, germanium for
       second month. Reuters. 20 October 2023. (Online: Reuters.) Available:
       https://www.reuters.com/world/china/china-export-curbs-choke-off-shipments-gallium-
       germanium-second-month-2023-10-20 [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Mancheri, N A 2015. World trade in rare earths, Chinese export restrictions, and implications.
     Resources Policy. 46, 262-271. Available: 10.1016/j.resourpol.2015.10.009 [Accessed:
     2024-10-01 08:50:54].

Mancheri, N A, Sprecher, B, Bailey, G, Ge, J & Tukker, A 2019. Effect of Chinese policies on
     rare earth supply chain resilience. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 142, 101-
     112. Available: 10.1016/j.resconrec.2018.11.017 [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Marjolein de Ridder, S d J, Joshua Polchar, and Stephanie Lingemann,. 2012. Risks and
       Opportunities in the Global Phosphate Rock Market. The Hague Centre for Strategic
       Studies (HCSS) Available:



236
       https://www.phosphorusplatform.eu/images/download/HCSS_17_12_12_Phosphate.pdf
       [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

Marscheider-Weidemann, F, Langkau, S, Eberling, E, Erdmann, L, Haendel, M, Krail, M, Loibl,
      A, Neef, C, Neuwirth, M, Rostek, L, Shirinzadeh, S, Stijepic, D, Espinoza, L A T, Baur, S-
      J, Billaud, M, Deubzer, O, Maisel, F, Marwede, M, Rückschloss, J & Tippner, M. 2021.
      Raw materials for emerging technologies 2021 - a commissioned study. German Mineral
      Resources Agency (DERA) at the Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural
      Resources (BGR) (Berlin, Germany: BGR.) Available:
      https://publica.fraunhofer.de/handle/publica/301094 [Accessed: 05 June 2023].

Maslin, M, Van Heerde, L & Day, S 2022. Sulfur: A potential resource crisis that could stifle
       green technology and threaten food security as the world decarbonises. The
       Geographical Journal. 188, 498-505. Available: https://doi.org/10.1111/geoj.12475
       [Accessed: 01 November 2024].

McNulty, B A, Jowitt, S M & Belousov, I 2022. The importance of geology in assessing by- and
      coproduct metal supply potential; a case study of antimony, bismuth, selenium, and
      tellurium within the copper production stream. Economic Geology. 117, 1367-1385.
      Available: https://doi.org/10.5382/econgeo.4919 [Accessed: 19 September 2023].

Merriman, D. 2023a. Rare Earths: Explaining historical volatility and remaining uncertainty in the
      market.

Merriman, D. 2023b. Rare Earths: Explaining historical volatility and remaining uncertainty in the
      market. Available: https://projectblue.com/blue/news-analysis/439/rare-earth:-explaining-
      historical-volatility-and-remaining-uncertainty-in-the-market- [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Merriman, D. 2024. China announces new controls on rare earth resources and traceability. 2
      July 2024. (Online: Project Blue.) Available: https://projectblue.com/blue/news-
      analysis/937/china-announces-new-controls-on-rare-earth-resources-and-traceability-
      [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Millensifer, T A, Sinclair, D, Jonasson, I & Lipmann, A. 2014. Rhenium. 340-360 in: Critical
        metals handbook. (UK: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.) ISBN: 9780470671719.

Morris, S. 2023. Viewpoint: Full impact of Ga, Ge controls yet to come. Argus Media. 20
        December 2023. (Online: Argus Metals.) Available:
        https://metals.argusmedia.com/newsandanalysis/article/2521021?keywords=Viewpoint%
        3A%20Full%20impact%20of%20Ga%2C%20Ge%20controls%20yet%20to%20come&re
        turnParams= [Accessed: 2 October 2024].

MSP-REFRAM. 2020. Towards a strong and sustainable european refractory metals supply-
     chain. Multi-Stakeholder Platform for a Secure Supply of Refractory Metals in Europe
     (Online: PROMETIA.) Available: https://prometia.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/MSP-
     REFRAM-FINAL-REPORT-WEB.pdf [Accessed: 29 September 2023].

MSP-REFRAM. 2021. Niobium and Tantalum. Multi-Stakeholder Platform for a Secure Supply
     of Refractory Metals in Europe (Online: PROMETIA.) Available: https://prometia.eu/wp-
     content/uploads/2021/01/NIOBIUM-TANTALUM-v02.pdf [Accessed: 25 May 2023].

Mudd, G M. 2023. Platinum Group Elements: Critical Resources for Sustainable Technology.
      Chapter 5, pages 68-86 in: Critical Minerals and Sustainability Transition. (Boca Raton,
      Florida, USA: CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group.)




237
Mudd, G M & Jowitt, S M 2018a. Growing Global Copper Resources, Reserves and Production:
      Discovery Is Not the Only Control on Supply. Economic Geology. 113, 1235-1267.
      Available: https://doi.org./10.5382/econgeo.2018.4590 [Accessed: 1/30/2023].

Mudd, G M & Jowitt, S M 2018b. Global Resource Assessments of Primary Metals: An
      Optimistic Reality Check. Natural Resources Research. 27, pp 229-240. Available: doi:
      10.1007/s11053-017-9349-0.

Mudd, G M & Jowitt, S M 2022. The New Century for Nickel Resources, Reserves, and Mining:
      Reassessing the Sustainability of the Devil’s Metal. Economic Geology. 117, 1961-1983.
      Available: https://doi.org/10.5382/econgeo.4950 [Accessed: 22 August 2023].

Mudd, G M, Jowitt, S M & Werner, T T 2017. The world's lead-zinc mineral resources: scarcity,
      data, issues and opportunities. Ore Geology Reviews. 80, 1160-1190. Available:
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oregeorev.2016.08.010.

Mudd, G M, Weng, Z, Jowitt, S M, Turnbull, I D & Graedel, T E 2013. Quantifying the
      recoverable resources of by-product metals: The case of cobalt. Ore Geology Reviews.
      55, 87-98. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oregeorev.2013.04.010.

Nair, N A & Sairam, V 2021. Research initiatives on the influence of wollastonite in cement-
        based construction material-A review. Journal of Cleaner Production. 283, 124665.

Nassar, N T, Graedel, T E & Harper, E M 2015. By-product metals are technologically essential
      but have problematic supply. Science Advances. 1, e1400180. Available:
      https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.1400180 [Accessed: 5 April 2023].

National Grid. 2023a. Future Energy Scenarios 2023 - July 2023. National Grid (Online:
       NATIONAL GRID.) Available: www.nationalgrideso.com/future-energy/future-energy-
       scenarios [Accessed: 17 October 2024].

National Grid. 2023b. Future Energy Scenarios 2023. (Online: National Grid.) Available:
       https://www.nationalgrideso.com/future-energy/future-energy-scenarios/documents
       [Accessed: 20 December 2023].

Natural Resources Canada. 2022. The Canadian critical minerals strategy - from exploration to
       recycling: powering the green and digital economy for Canada and the world. (Ottawa,
       Canada:

Natural Resources Canada. 2023. Rare earth elements facts. (Online: Natural Resources
       Canada.) Available: https://natural-resources.canada.ca/our-natural-resources/minerals-
       mining/minerals-metals-facts/rare-earth-elements-facts/20522 [Accessed: 14 February
       2023].

Nickel Institute. 2021. About Nickel. (Online: Nickel Institute, data from Wood MacKenzie.)
        Available: https://nickelinstitute.org/en/about-nickel-and-its-applications/ [Accessed: 25
        May 2023].

Norsk Hydro. 2021. Annual report 2020. Norsk Hydro ASA. Oslo, Norway Available:
       https://www.hydro.com/globalassets/download-center/investor-downloads/ar20/annual-
       report-2020-new.pdf [Accessed: 18 July 2024].

Northey, S A, Mudd, G M, Werner, T T, Jowitt, S M, Haque, N, Yellishetty, M & Weng, Z 2017.
       The Exposure of Global Base Metal Resources to Water Criticality, Scarcity and Climate
       Change. Global Environmental Change. 44, pp 109-124.



238
Nuclear Energy Agency, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development &
      International Atomic Energy Agency. 2022. Uranium 2022: Resources, Production and
      Demand. Nuclear Energy Agency, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
      Development (NEA) and International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) (Paris, France:
      MEA AND IAEA.) Available: www.nea.fr

O'Driscoll, M. 2024. Squaring the Circle: Challenges & opportunities in recycling refractory
       minerals. IMFORMED Industrial Mineral Forums & Research Ltd.) Available:
       https://imformed.com/squaring-the-circle-challenges-opportunities-in-recycling-
       refractory-
       minerals/#:~:text=About%20250%2C000%20tpa%20of%20spent,over%20the%20next%
       202%20years [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

Office for National Statistics. 2007. UK Standard Industrial Classification of Economic Activities
        2007 (SIC 2007) - Structure and explanatory notes. (Houndmills: Palgrave Macmillan.)
        ISBN: 978-0-230-21012-7.

Office for National Statistics. 2023. UK Manufacturers’ Sales by Product (PRODCOM) UK
        Statistics Authority. (Online: Office for National Statistics (ONS).) Available:
        https://www.ons.gov.uk/surveys/informationforbusinesses/businesssurveys/ukmanufactu
        rerssalesbyproductprodcom [Accessed: 6 April 2024].

Office for National Statistics. 2024. Annual Business Survey, 2022 results. (On request: Office
        for National Statistics.)

Oliveira, M L S, Ward, C R, Izquierdo, M, Sampaio, C H, de Brum, I A S, Kautzmann, R M,
        Sabedot, S, Querol, X & Silva, L F O 2012. Chemical composition and minerals in pyrite
        ash of an abandoned sulphuric acid production plant. Science of The Total Environment.
        430, 34-47. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2012.04.046.

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2010. The Economic Impact of
       Export Restrictions on Raw Materials. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
       Development (OECD) (Paris: OECD PUBLICATIONS.) Available:
       https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2010/11/the-economic-
       impact-of-export-restrictions-on-raw-materials_g1g11e10/9789264096448-en.pdf
       [Accessed: 29 October 2024].

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2020. Methodological note to the
       Inventory of Export Restrictions on Industrial Raw Materials. Organisation for Economic
       Co-operation and Development (OECD) (Online: OECD.) Available:
       https://www.oecd.org/trade/topics/trade-in-raw-materials/documents/methodological-
       note-inventory-export-restrictions-industrial-raw-materials.pdf [Accessed: 19 April 2023].

Pan, S, Cefai, S & Zhang, N. 22 July 2024. Markets largely adjusted to China’s germanium,
       gallium, graphite export controls one year on. Available:
       https://www.fastmarkets.com/insights/markets-largely-adjusted-to-chinas-germanium-
       gallium-graphite-export-controls-one-year-on/ [Accessed: 11 October 2024].

Patel, M & Karamalidis, A K 2021. Germanium: A review of its US demand, uses, resources,
        chemistry, and separation technologies. Separation and Purification Technology. 275,
        118981.

Persistence Market Research. 2017. Sodium Metal Market. Persistence Market Research.)
       Available: https://www.persistencemarketresearch.com/market-research/sodium-metal-
       market.asp [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].


239
Petavratzi, E, Horn, S, Shaw, R & Josso, P. 2024a. A UK foresight study of materials in
       decarbonisation technologies. British Geological Survey OR/24/005. (Keyworth, UK:
       BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Petavratzi, E, Josso, P, Shaw, R, Horn, S, Hsu, W-T & Singh, N. 2024b. A UK foresight study of
       materials in decarbonisation technologies: the case of traction motors. British Geological
       Survey CR/24/008N. (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Petavratzi, E, Josso, P, Shaw, R, Horn, S, Hsu, W-T & Singh, N. 2024c. A UK foresight study of
       materials in decarbonisation technologies: the case of wind turbines. British Geological
       Survey CR/24/009N. (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Petavratzi, E, Josso, P, Shaw, R, Horn, S & Singh, N. 2024d. A UK foresight study of materials
       in decarbonisation technologies: the case of batteries. British Geological Survey
       CR/24/007N. (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Petavratzi, E, Josso, P, Shaw, R, Horn, S & Singh, N. 2024e. A UK foresight study of materials
       in decarbonisation technologies: the case of photovoltaic cells. British Geological Survey
       CR/24/006N. (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Presley, G C. 2006. Pumice, Pumicite, and Volcanic Cinder. 743-753 in: Industrial Minerals &
       Rocks: commodities, markets, and uses. Edition: 7th. (Littleton, Colorado, United States
       of America: Society for Mining, Metallurgy, and Exploration Incorporated.) ISBN: 0-
       87335-233-5.

Pronk, K. 2024. Germanium prices shoot for the moon. 8 October 2024. (Online: Project Blue.)
       Available: https://projectblue.com/blue/news-analysis/1038/germanium-prices-shoot-for-
       the-moon [Accessed: 14 October 2024].

PwC. 2024. Climate risks to nine key commodities: protecting people and prosperity. PwC
      (London, UK: PWC.) Available: https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/esg/how-does-
      climate-change-affect-natural-resources.html [Accessed: 14 October 2024].

Rainsford, D R B 2019. Pre-competitive geophysics in Ontario – attracting investment with data.
       CSEG Recorder. June 2019, 14 pages. https://cseg.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019-06-
       RECORDER-Pre-competitive_geophysics_in_Ontario.pdf.

Rajagopal, U. 2021. Research ReportsGlobal Consumption of Sodium Metal is Projected to
      Surpass 127,400 Metric Tonnes by 2024-End. Global Banking & Finance Review.)
      Available: https://www.globalbankingandfinance.com/global-consumption-of-sodium-
      metal-is-projected-to-surpass-127400-metric-tonnes-by-2024-end/ [Accessed: 22
      November, 2024].

Real Diamond Invest. 2024. The diamond market. (Online: Real Diamond Invest.) Available:
       https://www.realdiamondinvest.it/en/the-diamond-market/ [Accessed: 4 November 2024].

Recyclinginside. 2020. Gold Refining. (Istanbul, Turkey: PROSES MAKİNA.) Available:
       https://recyclinginside.com/e-waste-recycling/gold-refining/ [Accessed: 21 November
       2024].

Reuters. 2024a. CMOC to double copper output at Congo mines to 1 million tonnes by 2028. 10
       July 2024. (Online: Mining.com.) Available: https://www.mining.com/web/cmoc-to-
       double-copper-output-at-congo-mines-to-1-million-tons-by-2028/

Reuters. 2024b. Zambia's copper output may rise to 1 mln tons by 2026 as mines expand. 5
       April 2024. (Lusaka: Reuters.) Available: https://www.reuters.com/world/africa/zambias-

240
       copper-output-may-rise-1-mln-tons-by-2026-mines-expand-2024-04-05/ [Accessed: 05
       November 2024].

Rodby, K E, Jaffe, R L, Olivetti, E A & Brushett, F R 2023. Materials availability and supply
      chain considerations for vanadium in grid-scale redox flow batteries. Journal of Power
      Sources. 560, 232605. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2022.232605.

S&P Global. 2023. Sodium Chloride. S&P Global Inc.) Available:
      https://www.spglobal.com/commodityinsights/en/ci/products/sodium-chloride-chemical-
      economics-handbook.html [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

Sadden, E. 2024. INTERVIEW: China antimony export restrictions exacerbate global supply
      fears: USAC.

Schrijvers, D, Hool, A, Blengini, G A, Chen, W-Q, Dewulf, J, Eggert, R, van Ellen, L, Gauss, R,
       Goddin, J & Habib, K 2020. A review of methods and data to determine raw material
       criticality. Resources, conservation and recycling. 155, 104617. Available:
       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2019.104617 [Accessed: 5 April 2023].

Schwarz-Schampera, U. 2014a. Indium. 204-229 in: Critical Metals Handbook. Edition: 1st.
      (UK: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.) ISBN: 9781118755341.

Schwarz-Schampera, U. 2014b. Antimony. pp 70-98 in: Critical Metals Handbook. John Wiley &
      Sons.)

SCRREEN. 2023a. SCRREEN2 - Sulphur. European Union Horizon 2020 Programme (Online:
     EUROPEAN UNION HORIZON 2020 PROGRAMME.) Available:
     https://scrreen.eu/crms-2023/ [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

SCRREEN. 2023b. SCRREEN2 - Baryte. European Union Horizon 2020 Programme (Online:
     EUROPEAN UNION HORIZON 2020 PROGRAMME.) Available:
     https://scrreen.eu/crms-2023/ [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

SCRREEN. 2023c. SCRREEN2 - Bentonite. European Union Horizon 2020 Programme
     (Online: EUROPEAN UNION HORIZON 2020 PROGRAMME.) Available:
     https://scrreen.eu/crms-2023/ [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

SCRREEN. 2023d. CRMS 2023. (Online: SCRREEN.) Available: https://scrreen.eu/crms-2023/
     [Accessed: 6 April 2023].

Shaw, R. 2022. The potential for lithium in the UK. Available:
      https://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/535661/

Simionescu, R. 2024. New Liquid Helium Recycling System Offers Sustainable Research.
      (Canada: Brock University.) Available: https://brocku.ca/mathematics-
      science/chemistry/2024/01/26/new-liquid-helium-recycling-system-offers-sustainable-
      research/ [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Singh, N, Lusty, P & Josso, P. 2023. Scoping study on metals used in specailist alloys in the
       aerospace industry. British Geological Survey OR/23/016. (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH
       GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) [Accessed: 4 November 2024].

Smulian, M. 2022. UK labelled Europe’s glass recycling ‘laggard’. (London, UK: Materials
      recycling World.) Available: https://www.mrw.co.uk/news/uk-labelled-europes-glass-
      recycling-laggard-01-09-2022/ [Accessed: 21 November 2024].



241
SPECFINISH. 2016. Plasterboard recycling reaches 45.9%. (Solihull, UK: Finishes and Interiors
     Sector Ltd.) Available: https://www.specfinish.co.uk/8924-2/ [Accessed: 21 November
     2024].

SRP Minerals. 2024. Bentonite. (Gujarat, India: SRP Minerals.) Available:
     https://srpminerals.com/service/bentonite-powder/ [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Stanford Advanced Materials. 2024. The Performance and Application of Hafnium. (United
       States: Stanford Advanced Materials.) Available:
       https://www.samaterials.com/content/the-performance-and-application-of-hafnium.html
       [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Stiftner, R, Weber, L & Rechberger, H 2024. Methodology for a Better Estimation of the
        Reserves and Resources of Minor Metals Exemplified by Selenium in Different Copper
        Deposit Types. Mineral Economics. 37, 413-432. Available: 10.1007/s13563-023-00384-
        0.

Stormcrow. 2015. Rare earth oxides base prices 2009-2013. Price data (Online: Statista.)
      Available: https://www.statista.com/statistics/449834/average-rare-earth-oxide-prices-
      globally/ [Accessed: 21 October 2024].

Sun, X, Hao, H, Liu, Z & Zhao, F 2020. Insights into the global flow pattern of manganese.
       Resources Policy. 65, 101578. Available:
       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2019.101578 [Accessed: 10 July 2023].

Sweet, P C, Dixon, G B & Snoddy, J R. 2006. Kayanite, Andalusite, Sillimanite, and Mullite.
       553-560 in: Industrial Minerals and Rocks: Commodities, Markets and Uses. Edition: 7th
       editition. Society for Mining, Metallurgy, and Exploration, Inc.)

The Barytes association. 2024. What is Barytes? - Uses of Barytes. (Brussels, Belgium: The
      Barytes association.) Available: https://www.barytes.org/uses [Accessed: 21 November
      2024].

The Observatory of Economic Complexity. 2024. The Observatory of Economic Complexity.
      (Online: The Observatory of Economic Complexity.) Available: https://oec.world/en
      [Accessed: 1 April 2024].

The Silver Institute. 2024. Silver supply & demand. (Washington, USA: Silver Institute’s World
       Silver Survey 2024.) Available: https://silverinstitute.org/silver-supply-demand/
       [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

The Silver Institute. various. World Silver Survey, Years 2014 to 2024. The Silver Institute (TSI)
       (Washington DC, USA: Available: www.silverinstitute.org/all-world-silver-surveys/

The White House. 2022. Inflation Reduction Act Guidebook | Clean Energy. THE WHITE
      HOUSE. Available: https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-act-
      guidebook/ [Accessed: 30 October 2024].

Trueman, D L & Sabey, P. 2014. Beryllium. 99-121 in: Critical Metals Handbook. (Oxford: John
      Wiley & Sons.)

Tyrer, M & Sykes, J P 2013. The statistics of the rare earths industry. Significance. 10, 12-16.
       Available: 10.1111/j.1740-9713.2013.00645.x [Accessed: 21 October 2024].

U.S. Department of Energy. 2023. Notice of Final Determination on 2023 DOE Critical Materials
       List. U.S. Department of Energy (USDoE) (Washington D.C., USA: Available:


242
       https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/08/04/2023-16611/notice-of-final-
       determination-on-2023-doe-critical-materials-list [Accessed: 23 November 2024].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2012. Mineral commodity summaries 2012. U.S. Geological Survey,
      Reston, Virginia Available: https://d9-wret.s3.us-west-
      2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/mineral-pubs/mcs/mcs2012.pdf
      [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2017. Mineral commodity summaries 2017. U.S. Geological Survey,
      Reston, Virginia: 2017 Available: https://d9-wret.s3.us-west-
      2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/mineral-pubs/mcs/mcs2017.pdf
      [Accessed: 22 November 2024].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2020. Mineral commodity summaries 2020. U.S. Geological Survey
      (USGS) (Reston, USA: USGS.) Available: https://doi.org/10.3133/mcs2020 [Accessed:
      26 May 2023].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2022a. Mineral Commodity Summaries 2022 - Pumice and Pumicite.
      U.S. Geological Survey 2020 Reston, USA: USGS Available:
      https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2022/mcs2022-pumice.pdf [Accessed: 22
      November 2024].

U.S. Geological Survey. 22 February 2022b. U.S. Geological Survey Releases 2022 List of
      Critical Minerals. Available: https://www.usgs.gov/news/national-news-release/us-
      geological-survey-releases-2022-list-critical-minerals [Accessed: 17 April 2023].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2022c. Antimony. United States Geological Survey (USGS) (Reston,
      USA: USGS.) Available: https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2023/mcs2023-
      antimony.pdf [Accessed: 05 June 2023].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2023a. Germanium. United States Geological Survey Reston, USA:
      USGS Available: https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2023/mcs2023-germanium.pdf
      [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2023b. Diatomite. U.S. Geological Survey Reston, USA: USGS
      Available: https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2023/mcs2023-diatomite.pdf
      [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

U.S. Geological Survey. 2024a. Minerals Yearbook - Metals and Minerals. National Minerals
      Information Center 2024. (Reston, VA: U. S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.) Available:
      https://www.usgs.gov/centers/national-minerals-information-center/minerals-yearbook-
      metals-and-minerals

U.S. Geological Survey. 2024b. Mineral commodity summaries 2024. U. S. Geological Survey
      (USGS) 2024. (Reston, VA: USGS.) Available:
      https://pubs.usgs.gov/publication/mcs2024

UK Government. 2024. Policy statement on onshore wind. (Online: GOV.UK.) Available:
      https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/policy-statement-on-onshore-wind/policy-
      statement-on-onshore-wind [Accessed: 21 October 2024].

UK Steel. 2024. Key statistics guide may 2024. UK Steel (Online: UK STEEL.) Available:
      https://www.uksteel.org/reports-and-publications [Accessed: 28 October 2024].




243
United Kingdom Quality Ash Association. 2024. UK Quality Ash Association - About Us. (Online:
       United Kingdom Quality Ash Association.) Available: https://www.ukqaa.org.uk/about/
       [Accessed: 22 October 2024].

United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. 2024. UN Comtrade Database.
       (Online: United Nations,.) Available: https://comtradeplus.un.org/ [Accessed: 1 April
       2024].

United Nations Development Programme. 2024. Human Development Index (HDI). (Online:
       United Nations.), https://hdr.undp.org/data-center/human-development-
       index#/indicies/HDI [Accessed: 15 April 2024].

United Nations Environment Programme. 2017. Global Mercury Supply, Trade and Demand.
       Chemicals and Health Branch,United Nations Environment Programme (Geneva,
       Switzerland: Available: www.unep.org/resources/report/global-mercury-supply-trade-
       and-demand

United Nations Environment Programme. 2019. Global Mercury Assessment 2018. UN
       Environment Programme (UNEP) Chemicals and Health Branch, (Geneva, Switzerland:
       UNEP.) Available: https://www.unep.org/resources/publication/global-mercury-
       assessment-2018 [Accessed: 24 October 2024].

United Nations Environment Programme, Markus Reuter, Outotec Oyj, Christian Hudson,
       Antoinette van Schaik, Kari Heiskanen, Christina Meskers & Christian Hagelüken. 2013.
       Metal Recycling: Opportunities, Limits, Infrastructure. United Nations Environment
       Programme (UNEP) (Online: UNEP.) Available:
       https://www.resourcepanel.org/sites/default/files/documents/document/media/e-
       book_metals_report2b_recyclingopportunities_130919.pdf [Accessed: 1 April 2024].

UNSGPCETM. 2024. Resourcing the energy transition: principles to guide critical energy
     transition minerals towards equity and justice. Report prepared by the United Nations
     Secretary-General’s Panel on Critical Energy Transition Metals (UNSGPCETM)
     Available: https://www.un.org/en/climatechange/critical-minerals

VERAM. 2017. VERAM is a project funded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and
     innovation programme under grant agreement No 690388. Available:
     http://veram2050.eu/nine-new-critical-materials/ [Accessed: 21 July 2024].

Wang, P, Yang, Y-Y, Heidrich, O, Chen, L-Y, Chen, L-H, Fishman, T & Chen, W-Q 2024.
      Regional rare-earth element supply and demand balanced with circular economy
      strategies. Nature Geoscience. 17, 94-102. Available: 10.1038/s41561-023-01350-9.

Weng, Z, Jowitt, S M, Mudd, G M & Haque, N 2015. A detailed assessment of global rare earth
      element resources: opportunities and challenges. Economic Geology. 110, 1925-1952.

Werner, T T, Mudd, G M & Jowitt, S M 2017. The world's by-product and critical metal
      resources part III: indium. Ore Geology Reviews. 86, 939-956.

Werner, T T, Mudd, G M, Jowitt, S M & Huston, D 2023. Rhenium mineral resources: A global
      assessment. Resources Policy. 82, 103441.

WHA International Inc. 2023. Top Industrial Uses of Hydrogen, and the Need for Industrial
      Hydrogen Safety. (5605 Dona Ana Road Las Cruces, NM 88007: Available: https://wha-
      international.com/hydrogen-in-
      industry/#_edn1%20;%20https://www.fchea.org/hydrogen-in-industrial-



244
       applications#:~:text=Hydrogen%20is%20primarily%20used%20as,of%20uses%20for%2
       0hydrogen%20production. [Accessed: 22 November, 2024].

Wolf, M J, Emerson, J W, Esty, D C, de Sherbinin, A & Wendling, Z A. 2022. 2022
       Environmental Performance Index (EPI). (New Haven, CT: Yale Center for
       Environmental Law & Policy.), https://epi.yale.edu/ [Accessed: 18 April 2023].

Woo, R. 2024. China issues rare earth regulations to further protect domestic supply. Reuters.
      29 June 2024. (Online: Reuters.) Available:
      https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/china-issues-rare-earth-regulations-
      further-protect-domestic-supply-2024-06-29/ [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

World Bank. 2024. Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI). (Online: World Bank.) Available:
       https://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/worldwide-governance-indicators [Accessed:
       24 June 2024].

World Nuclear Association. 2024a. World uranium mining production. (London, UK: Available:
       https://world-nuclear.org/information-library/nuclear-fuel-cycle/mining-of-uranium/world-
       uranium-mining-production [Accessed: 10 November 2024].

World Nuclear Association. 2024b. Uranium Markets. (Online: World Nuclear Association.)
       Available: https://world-nuclear.org/information-library/nuclear-fuel-cycle/uranium-
       resources/uranium-markets [Accessed: 4 November 2024].

World Trade Organisation. 2022. Regional Trade Agreements Database. (Online: World Trade
       Organisation.), https://rtais.wto.org/UI/PublicMaintainRTAHome.aspx [Accessed: 24
       August 2023].

Worldstainless. 2023. Global Life Cycle of Stainless Steel. (Brussels, Belgium: Worldstainless.)
       Available: https://www.worldstainless.org/news/global-life-cycle-of-stainless-steel/
       [Accessed: 21 November 2024].

Wübbeke, J 2013. Rare earth elements in China: Policies and narratives of reinventing an
     industry. Resources Policy. 38, 384-394. Available: 10.1016/j.resourpol.2013.05.005
     [Accessed: 1 October 2024].

Yan, W, Wang, Z, Cao, H, Zhang, Y & Sun, Z 2021. Criticality assessment of metal resources in
      China. iScience. 24, 102524. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2021.102524
      [Accessed: 4 April 2023].

Zeiler, B, Bartl, A & Schubert, W-D 2021. Recycling of tungsten: Current share, economic
        limitations, technologies and future potential. International Journal of Refractory Metals
        and Hard Materials. 98, 105546. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrmhm.2021.105546
        [Accessed: 4 July 2023].

Zhang, M Y. 2024. Antimony: The hidden metal fuelling global competition. (Online: Lowy
       Institute.) Available: https://www.lowyinstitute.org/the-interpreter/antimony-hidden-metal-
       fuelling-global-competition [Accessed: 2024].

Zils, M, Einarsson, S, Hopkinson, P 2024a. A UK foresight study of materials in decarbonisation
        technologies: the case of heat pumps. British Geological Survey via University of Exeter
        Business School (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

Zils, M, Einarsson, S, Hopkinson, P 2024b. A UK foresight study of materials in decarbonisation
        technologies: the case of electrolysers. British Geological Survey via University of Exeter
        Business School (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

245
Zils, M, Einarsson, S, Hopkinson, P 2024c. A UK foresight study of materials in decarbonisation
        technologies: the case of fuel cells. British Geological Survey via University of Exeter
        Business School (Keyworth, UK: BRITISH GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.)

ZIRCOMET. 2019. Zirconium Chemical and Fused Zirconium Oxide. ZIRCOMET LIMITED.)
     Available: http://www.zircomet.com/sec/11189/Zirconium-Market-Update [Accessed: 22
     November, 2024].




246