NASA
Office of Inspector General

NASA’s Management of the Artemis
Supply Chain




October 19, 2023               IG-24-003
                                         Office of Inspector General
To report fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement, contact the NASA OIG Hotline at 800-424-9183 or 800-535-8134 (TDD) or
visit https://oig.nasa.gov/hotline.html. You can also write to NASA Inspector General, P.O. Box 23089, L’Enfant Plaza Station,
Washington, D.C. 20026. The identity of each writer and caller can be kept confidential, upon request, to the extent permitted by law.

To suggest ideas or request future audits, contact the Assistant Inspector General for Audits at https://oig.nasa.gov/aboutAll.html.

                                                                NOTICE:

Pursuant to PL 117-263, section 5274, non-governmental organizations and business entities identified in this report have the
opportunity to submit a written response for the purpose of clarifying or providing additional context to any specific reference.
Comments must be submitted to HQ-Section5274Submissions@nasa.gov within 30 days of the report issuance date and
we request that comments not exceed 2 pages. The comments will be appended by link to this report and posted on our
public website. We request that submissions be Section 508 compliant and free from any proprietary or otherwise
sensitive information.
RESULTS IN BRIEF
NASA’s Management of the Artemis Supply Chain

October 19, 2023                                                   IG-24-003 (A-22-014-00-HED)


WHY WE PERFORMED THIS AUDIT
The Artemis campaign is NASA’s signature space flight endeavor, aiming to return humans to the Moon and send crewed
missions to Mars. This complex effort involves multiple programs and projects across many NASA Centers, including the
Space Launch System (SLS) heavy-lift rocket; the Orion Crew Vehicle; Exploration Ground Systems that support launch
and recovery; Extravehicular Spacesuits for the crew; a Human Landing System to take crew to and from the lunar
surface; and the Gateway, a space station in orbit around the Moon. The first mission, Artemis I, was a 25.5 day
uncrewed test flight around the Moon that returned to Earth in December 2022. Artemis II, the first crewed mission, is
scheduled to launch in the fall of 2024, with Artemis III—a lunar landing involving two astronauts—planned for 2025.

Each of these Artemis-related programs rely on specialized parts supplied by contractors and subcontractors from across
the United States and around the world. To support the Artemis campaign, NASA obligated approximately $40 billion to
860 contractors from fiscal years 2012 to 2022. NASA’s contractors employ a network of subcontractors and suppliers
to provide the hardware, raw materials, electronic parts, and other resources needed to fulfill their contracts. However,
numerous challenges to these supply chains—from the COVID-19 pandemic to workforce retention—have resulted in
limited supplies and materials that, in turn, have affected the Artemis campaign’s schedule and costs.

Proper supply chain management is essential to ensuring the Artemis campaign can meet its exploration goals. In this
audit, we assessed NASA’s management of the Artemis campaign’s supply chain, including reviewing supply chain
challenges and risks, as well as how supply chain issues are identified and mitigated. To understand NASA’s visibility into
the Artemis campaign’s supply chain, we interviewed officials from NASA’s supply chain management and logistics
groups, and staff from the Office of the Chief Engineer, Office of Procurement, and Artemis campaign. We also sent
detailed questionnaires to Artemis-related program and procurement officials and prime contractors, reviewed federal
and NASA requirements, examined supplier data, and researched best practices from other government agencies and
private sector industries.


WHAT WE FOUND
NASA and its prime contractors continue to experience challenges obtaining key components and necessary supplies to
meet Artemis goals. The inability to obtain critical components and resources, such as space-grade valves and helium, in
a timely manner has resulted in program cost increases and schedule delays. For example, program officials identified
$18.5 million in increased costs for the SLS Core Stage 2 attributable to supply chain impacts as well as $41 million in
projected cost increases for the Orion capsule due to component shortages. Worse yet, given the difficulty in identifying
and quantifying supply chain impacts, these numbers do not represent the total effect of supply chain disruptions on the
Artemis campaign.

Supply chain delays and disruptions over the past several years have resulted from a variety of factors, many of which
are outside the Agency’s control, including the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation of wages and material costs, the
Russia-Ukraine conflict, and difficulties in maintaining a qualified workforce. NASA’s supplies can also be delayed when
higher-priority national security projects require parts and materials from the same contractors. That said, we found
several factors related to managing Artemis supply chain issues that are within NASA’s purview. Most importantly, the
Agency lacks visibility into its critical suppliers with many Artemis programs and projects not tracking their prime
contractors’ supply chain impacts. Even when issues with subcontractors and suppliers are identified, performance
challenges are not shared across Artemis teams to enable effective procurement decisions. Moreover, we found that
NASA’s Logistics Management Division (LMD)—which could be a useful resource to help plan for supply chain issues—is
not utilized by Artemis programs and projects.

In contrast, we found that other government agencies and private industry use more proactive supply chain monitoring
and management practices than NASA. For example, several government agencies maintain advanced supplier
databases, require supplier information from contractors, and incorporate logistics experts into contracts from their
inception. In addition, private industries’ ability to identify “bottleneck” suppliers is a particularly critical capability in
supply chain oversight.

NASA is undertaking efforts to better understand supply chain issues and manage them more proactively, but these
initiatives are still in the early stages. Two internal Agency databases—Insight Central and PrimeE—could provide
increased awareness of NASA’s supply chains, but only if the databases are used consistently. At this time, program
personnel across the Agency are not regularly inputting data into or consistently using Insight Central. PrimeE, managed
by the LMD, is designed to visualize supply chain data and identify sole- and alternate-source suppliers. LMD hopes
PrimeE will become a complement to Insight Central and other supply chain tools.

Two internal collaborative efforts at NASA—the Supply Chain Resiliency Forum and the Holistic Agency Study—were
designed to improve NASA’s understanding of its supply chain issues. The Forum convenes representatives from across
the Agency to coordinate supply chain-related activities, but the group has not yet finalized an official charter. The
Holistic Agency Study, conducted by the Office of Technology, Policy and Strategy and the Office of the Chief Engineer,
took place from late 2021 to 2023. The group used a broad survey of NASA stakeholders to examine supply chain issues
and related management issues across the Agency. Initial results of the study show that supply chain issues at NASA are
usually a surprise to the Agency, with mitigation therefore reactive rather than proactive. However, none of these
collaborative efforts to date have significantly improved NASA’s visibility into its Artemis supply chain.


WHAT WE RECOMMENDED

To improve NASA’s management and visibility into its supply chain, we recommended the Executive for the Supply Chain
Resiliency Forum (1) establish a charter for the existing Supply Chain Resiliency Forum; (2) complete the Supply Chain
Visibility Data Requirement Description effort; and (3) provide training to ensure contracting officers will utilize available
supplier data. Further, to improve NASA’s management of the Artemis supply chain, we recommended the Associate
Administrator for Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate (4) centralize supply chain management for the
Artemis campaign within the Moon to Mars Program Office; (5) ensure data is regularly entered into a supplier
database; (6) incorporate a representative from the LMD into each Artemis-related program; and (7) ensure an Artemis-
specific industrial base and supply chain study is completed on a recurring basis.

We provided a draft of this report to NASA management who concurred with recommendations 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7 and
partially concurred with recommendation 6. We consider management’s comments responsive to recommendations 1,
3, 4, 5, and 7 and therefore those recommendations are resolved and will be closed upon completion and verification of
the proposed corrective actions. However, we found the Agency’s response to recommendations 2 and 6 unresponsive.
Consequently, those recommendations will remain unresolved pending further discussions with the Agency.




                                                                                  For more information on the NASA
                                                                                  Office of Inspector General and to
                                                                                  view this and other reports visit
                                                                                  https://oig.nasa.gov/.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction ......................................................................................................................................1
   Background ............................................................................................................................................... 1
Artemis Supply Chain Challenges Persist as NASA’s Efforts to Improve Management of its Suppliers
Are Evolving ................................................................................................................................................ 10
   Challenges Obtaining Key Components Have Resulted in Cost Increases and Schedule Disruptions to
   Artemis Programs ................................................................................................................................... 10
   Challenges in NASA’s Artemis Supply Chain Are Caused by a Variety of Factors ................................... 12
   NASA’s Strategic Oversight of its Supply Chain Is Evolving as Efforts to Manage Disruptions Are
   Focused on Immediate Needs ................................................................................................................ 15
   Other Agencies and Industries Offer Best Practices and Benchmarking Opportunities for NASA ......... 20
Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................. 23
Recommendations, Management’s Response, and Our Evaluation ........................................................ 24
Appendix A: Scope and Methodology ....................................................................................................... 26
Appendix B: Management’s Comments .................................................................................................... 29
Appendix C: Report Distribution................................................................................................................ 34




                                                                                       NASA Office of Inspector General                   IG-24-003          i
Acronyms
CARITL     Critical At-Risk Industrial Technology List
CLPS       Commercial Lunar Payload Services
COVID-19   Coronavirus Disease 2019
DCMA       Defense Contract Management Agency
DoD        Department of Defense
DPAS       Defense Priorities and Allocations System
DRD        Data Requirement Description
EEE        Electrical, Electronic, and Electromechanical
EGS        Exploration Ground Systems
ESA        European Space Agency
ESDMD      Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate
FAR        Federal Acquisition Regulation
FY         fiscal year
GFP        government furnished property
HLS        Human Landing System
LMD        Logistics Management Division
ML-1       Mobile Launcher 1
ML-2       Mobile Launcher 2
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
OIG        Office of Inspector General
PDREP      Product Data Reporting and Evaluation Program
SCRF       Supply Chain Resiliency Forum
SCRM       Supply Chain Risk Management
SLS        Space Launch System




                                                 NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   ii
INTRODUCTION

The Artemis campaign is NASA’s signature space flight endeavor and an ambitious and costly effort that
aims to return humans to the Moon and eventually send crewed missions to Mars. To accomplish these
goals, NASA relies heavily on contractors to build key systems such as the Space Launch System (SLS), a
two-stage, heavy-lift rocket that will launch the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion) into space. In
addition, mobile launchers will serve as ground platform structures that will launch the integrated
SLS/Orion system under the Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) Program. To conduct a lunar landing, the
Agency must develop advanced spacesuits to protect astronauts on the Moon’s surface; a Human
Landing System (HLS) to transport crew from Orion in lunar orbit to and from the Moon’s surface; and
the Gateway to provide a staging location for lunar missions and future deep space operations. Each of
these complex systems requires numerous specialized parts supplied by contractors and subcontractors
from around the world.

From fiscal years (FY) 2012 to 2022, NASA obligated approximately $40 billion to 860 contractors in
support of the Artemis campaign, with nearly $6 billion obligated in FY 2022 alone. 1 Fifty-nine
contractors support the five major human space flight Artemis programs—SLS, Orion, EGS, HLS, and
Gateway. 2 In turn, NASA’s contractors employ a network of subcontractors and suppliers to provide
necessary hardware and services, such as raw materials, electronic parts, and fuel. However, numerous
challenges to these supply chains—from a narrow space industrial base to workforce challenges—have
resulted in several cases of limited supplies and materials. In any event, proper management of its
supply chain for Artemis is essential to ensuring the Agency can meet its significant exploration goals. In
this audit, we examined NASA’s management of the Artemis campaign’s supply chain. Details of the
audit’s scope and methodology are outlined in Appendix A.

Background
The Artemis campaign seeks to return humans to the Moon by 2025 and ultimately send crewed
missions to Mars by the 2030s. The first flight—Artemis I—was an uncrewed mission that successfully
launched the SLS and Orion from the Mobile Launcher 1 (ML-1) in November 2022 and returned to Earth
after spending 25.5 days in space and circling the Moon. Artemis II is scheduled to launch in the fall of
2024 as the first crewed Artemis mission and will remain in Earth’s orbit for several days to test
numerous systems, such as the Orion’s maneuverability and its life support and habitation equipment,
before proceeding to an orbit around the Moon. Artemis III, planned for 2025, will take two astronauts
to the Moon’s surface on the first crewed demonstration of the HLS. 3 NASA’s plans for future Artemis
missions, beginning in 2028 with Artemis IV, will incorporate the Gateway—a lunar outpost—and a
bigger, more powerful SLS configuration known as Block 1B. This larger configuration enables the rocket

1   The $40 billion includes funds obligated for the following five programs: SLS, Orion, EGS, HLS, and Gateway. The
    860 contractors include any vendor paid directly by NASA in support of any of the five programs. The 860-contractor count
    does not include the subcontractors and suppliers employed by NASA’s contractors.
2   The Extravehicular Activity and Human Surface Mobility Program was not included in our analysis, as there was not yet
    relevant data within NASA’s accounting system at the time of our analysis.
3   Even though the planned Artemis III launch date is 2025, in June 2023 a NASA official publicly stated that this date will
    probably slip to 2026.



                                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-003    1
        to launch 40 percent more payload to the Moon than the SLS Block 1 used for the first three Artemis
        missions. Figure 1 provides a more detailed description of the programs and projects necessary to the
        Artemis campaign.

Figure 1: Artemis Systems in Development (as of July 2023)




Source: Spacesuit photo credit: Axiom Space. Other photos: NASA.



        Artemis Organizational Structure
        NASA’s Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate (ESDMD) manages the human
        exploration system development for lunar orbital, lunar surface, and Mars exploration. 4 In April 2023,
        NASA established the Moon to Mars Program Office within ESDMD to focus on hardware development,
        mission integration, and risk management functions for programs critical to the agency’s exploration
        goals. The Moon to Mars Program Office oversees the development of the programs and projects


        4   While other NASA Mission Directorates are also involved in the science and technology development necessary to the
            Artemis campaign, this audit focused on the programs and projects managed by ESDMD.



                                                                             NASA Office of Inspector General        IG-24-003   2
critical to the Artemis campaign—SLS, Orion, supporting ground systems, HLS, spacesuits, and Gateway.
Figure 2 provides the current ESDMD organizational structure.

Figure 2: NASA’s ESDMD Organizational Chart (as of May 2023)




Source: NASA OIG presentation of Agency information.



Supply Chain Flow
The programs that make up the Artemis campaign—as illustrated in Figure 2—each rely on multiple
contractors responsible for products and services related to their portion of the mission. Generally, a
program will award a contract to a company to act as the “prime contractor.” The prime contractor is
ultimately responsible for delivering the final product, as well as managing any companies that it in turn
contracts with; these second-tier companies are known as “subcontractors.” 5 Subcontractors often turn
to additional suppliers for parts and raw materials, further expanding the web of companies involved in
a program. The network of companies involved in the production of each piece of hardware—from the
raw materials all the way through final processing—is known as the “supply chain.” A generalized
supply chain is illustrated in Figure 3 below.




5   Subcontractors enter into a subcontract to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or another
    subcontract.



                                                                       NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-003    3
Figure 3: Representation of a NASA Supply Chain




    Represents any NASA       A direct contract with a   A company hired by a         A company that provides
     program or project.          NASA program.            prime contractor.            a product or service.



Source: NASA OIG summary.

However, a program’s supply chain is not always linear. NASA programs will sometimes provide a prime
contractor with “government-furnished property” (GFP), which refers to any equipment, software, or
other materials that the government owns. Contracting officers can choose to provide GFP to a prime
contractor if that is in the government’s interest and the requirements of the contract cannot otherwise
be met.

While often confused with supply chain, the “industrial base” refers
                                                                            Supply Chain
to the available companies that make up a worldwide industry. For
                                                                            The network between a company and its
example, when NASA purchases a piece of hardware from a specific
                                                                            suppliers to produce a specific product.
company, all suppliers that company uses to produce the hardware
comprise the supply chain for that item. However, all other                 Industrial Base
companies capable of producing that hardware—including those                The wider network of all companies and
that were not chosen—comprise the industrial base.                          suppliers with the capacity to produce a
                                                                            specific product.

NASA Supply Chain Management
There is no formal office assigned to manage the Artemis campaign’s supply chain and related risks; the
Artemis programs and projects are individually responsible for monitoring and tracking risks, to include
any supply chain concerns. The programs rely on the prime contractors to identify, communicate,
mitigate, and forecast any supply chain challenges. The method and level of detail in which the primes
communicate supply chain issues to NASA can vary by contractor and by NASA program. Over the last
few years, NASA has begun to recognize the need for increased visibility into its supply chain and has
several internal efforts underway to identify and mitigate supply chain risks Agency wide. In 2021, NASA
partnered with The Aerospace Corporation to develop the Critical At-Risk Industrial Technology List
(CARITL), which includes 63 items such as valves, helium, and liquid hydrogen, that are vital to NASA




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General        IG-24-003      4
       projects but may have only one source, a limited market, or require specialized workers or equipment. 6
       After the conclusion of The Aerospace Corporation effort, NASA established the Holistic Agency Study
       group to provide recommendations to Agency officials to improve management and oversight of NASA’s
       supply chain. In addition, NASA implemented the Supply Chain Forum Working Group in early 2022 to
       better coordinate across the Agency and benchmark with other government agencies and industries.
       During the audit, the group was renamed the Supply Chain Resiliency Forum (SCRF) and, as of August
       2023, was in the process of establishing a formal charter.
       One of NASA’s primary supply chain efforts is implementing a database, known as Supply Chain Insight
       Central (Insight Central), to track and communicate supply chain issues. The Supply Chain Risk
       Management (SCRM) Program, within NASA’s Office of Safety and Mission Assurance, is leading this
       effort. To improve oversight and gain visibility, Insight Central combines information from NASA and
       contractors to develop a repository of prime contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers that provide
       mission hardware.

       Prime Contractors and Critical Suppliers for the Artemis Campaign
       While NASA has directly contracted with 860 contractors since 2012 in support of the Artemis campaign,
       17 of those are major prime contractors with 23 separate contracts. As shown in Table 1, these
       23 contracts alone are valued at over $63 billion and procure services and hardware for each of the
       Artemis systems. Eleven of the 23 contracts are cost-reimbursement contracts under which NASA pays
       all allowable contractor expenses, and the remaining 12 are fixed-price contracts under which NASA
       pays a predetermined value for the goods or services and any overruns are the responsibility of the
       contractor. 7
Table 1: Major Prime Contractors for Artemis Systems and Total Contract Value (as of April 2023)
     Artemis Component                 Prime Contractors                Part and Contract                  Contract Type            Contract Valuea
                                                                                                        Cost-
                                       Lockheed Martin           Orion development                                                       $15.0 billion
                                                                                                        reimbursement
                        Orion
                                                                 Orion Production and                   Cost-
                                       Lockheed Martin                                                                                    $4.9 billion
                                                                 Operations Contract                    reimbursement
                                                                 Core stages and Exploration            Cost-
                                       Boeing                                                                                             $9.7 billion
                                                                 Upper Stage                            reimbursement
                                                                 Interim Cryogenic Propulsion
                                       Boeing                                                           Fixed-price                       $1.0 billion
                                                                 Stage
                   Space Launch                                                                         Cost-
                                       Aerojet Rocketdyne        RS-25 engines adaptation                                             $580.9 million
                      System                                                                            reimbursement
                                                                 RS-25 engines restart                  Cost-
                                       Aerojet Rocketdyne                                                                                 $3.6 billion
                                                                 production                             reimbursement
                                                                                                        Cost-
                                       Northrop Grumman          Boosters                                                                 $4.4 billion
                                                                                                        reimbursement


       6   The CARITL identifies NASA space industrial base at-risk items used for NASA’s launch vehicles and spacecraft systems. It includes
           items such as raw materials, parts, components, and subsystems.
       7   Using a cost-reimbursement approach, NASA approves all designs, manages all development and schedules, and owns the vehicle
           after delivery by the contractor. While this process gives NASA maximum control over the contractor’s design and final product, the
           majority of the cost, schedule, and outcome risks are borne by the federal government. A fixed-price contract provides a set price
           that does not change if the contractor’s costs increase during the period of performance due to inflation or supply chain issues,
           resulting in less risk to the government from subcontractors and suppliers.



                                                                                 NASA Office of Inspector General           IG-24-003       5
Table 1: Major Prime Contractors for Artemis Systems and Total Contract Value (as of April 2023)
        Artemis Component                Prime Contractors               Part and Contract                  Contract Type           Contract Valuea
                                         Teledyne Brown                                                  Cost-
                                                                  Launch Vehicle Stage Adapter                                         $350.0 million
                                         Engineering                                                     reimbursement
                                                                                                         Cost-
                                         Dynetics                 Universal Stage Adapter                                              $273.2 million
                                                                                                         reimbursement
                                         Hensel Phelps            Structure construction                 Fixed-price                   $144.1 million
                                                                  Structure modifications and
                                         JP Donovan               ground support equipment
                                                                                                         Fixed-price                   $217.9 million
                                         Construction             installation and construction
                                                                  (two different contracts)
                         Mobile          Vencore Services         Kennedy Space Center                   Cost-
                                                                                                                                       $228.0 million
                       Launcher-1        and Solutions            engineering services                   reimbursement
                                                                  Developed designs for
                                         Reynolds, Smith &
                                                                  structural modifications (two          Fixed-price                    $55.6 million
                                         Hills
                                                                  different contracts)
                                                                  Kennedy Space Center test              Cost-
                                         Jacobs Technology                                                                                $2.1 billionb
                                                                  and operations support                 reimbursement
                                         Maxar                    Power and Propulsion
                                                                                                         Fixed-price                   $730.9 million
                                         Technologies             Element
                                                                  Habitation and Logistics
                        Gateway          Northrop Grumman                                                Fixed-price                       $1.5 billion
                                                                  Outpost Module
                                                                  Launch services                        Fixed-price                   $331.8 million
                                         SpaceX
                                                                  Logistics services                     Fixed-price                      $7.0 billionc


                         Mobile-                                                                         Cost-
                                         Bechtel                  Mobile Launcher-2                                                        $1.0 billion
                       Launcher 2                                                                        reimbursement


                                         SpaceX                   Landing system                         Fixed-price                       $3.5 billion
                         Human
                         Landing
                         System          Blue Origind             Landing system                         Fixed-price                       $3.4 billion


                                         Axiom Space              Extravehicular spacesuits              Fixed-price
                     Extravehicular
                                                                                                                                           $3.5 billion
                       Spacesuits        Collins Aerospace        Extravehicular spacesuits              Fixed-price


Source: OIG summary of NASA data.
a Contract values are current as of April 18, 2023. The contract value is the total amount of the base contract and any options that have been
  exercised.
b The Jacobs Technology test and operations support contract includes other EGS support and services for other programs, including the Launch

  Services Program and the International Space Station.
c The Gateway Logistics Services contract has a maximum contract value of $7 billion to deliver cargo, experiments, and other supplies to the

  Gateway in lunar orbit over a 15-year period.
d   NASA awarded this contract to Blue Origin after our analysis was complete, so Blue Origin's suppliers were not included in the critical
    supplier analysis.



                                                                                  NASA Office of Inspector General           IG-24-003        6
NASA has limited insight into its subcontractors and sub-tier suppliers when using cost-reimbursement
contracts and even less insight under fixed-price contracts. If prime contractors do not have a
purchasing system approved by NASA, they are required by federal law to report their subcontractors
for both contract types, known as the consent to subcontract clause. 8 The report is also required if the
contracting officer determines there is a risk that requires special surveillance, such as major systems
acquisitions and high risk, critical subsystems, components, or services. 9 In addition, NASA can gain
further visibility into fixed-price subcontracts if the subcontract or unpriced action is: (1) greater than
the simplified acquisition threshold of $250,000 or (2) greater than 5 percent of the total estimated cost
of the contract. 10 However, even when the above conditions are met, the prime contractor is only
required to submit the names of its subcontractors, not its sub-tier suppliers—that is, the suppliers used
by the subcontractors. For example, NASA provided the OIG with approximately 1,000 subcontractor
names from the 17 major prime contractors supporting the Artemis campaign. However, five prime
contractors—Aerojet Rocketdyne, Boeing, Jacobs, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman—together
have reported using over 3,200 subcontractors and suppliers for the Artemis I launch.

Further, of the 860 contractors NASA pays directly in support of the Artemis campaign, we identified
59 separate contractors or suppliers that support five major Artemis programs—SLS, Orion, EGS, HLS,
and Gateway—making them critical to the success of the Artemis missions. 11 These 59 critical suppliers
provide essential components and services such as valves, fuel, electronic parts, and engines necessary
to develop the Artemis systems. Figure 4 provides a breakdown of the total number of Artemis
suppliers and the obligations by Artemis program.




8   Purchasing system refers to the contractor's system or systems for purchasing and subcontracting, including make-or-buy
    decisions, the selection of vendors, analysis of quoted prices, negotiation of prices with vendors, placing and administering of
    orders, and expediting delivery of materials. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 44.2, Consent to Subcontracts.
    According to the NASA FAR supplement, a contractor’s purchasing system can be approved by NASA or the Defense Contract
    Management Agency, depending on the cognizant administrative contracting officer. NASA FAR Supplement: Subpart
    1844.3, Contractors' Purchasing Systems Reviews.
9   FAR Subpart 42.202, Assignment of contract administration. Further, FAR Part 34, Major System Acquisition, defines major
    systems acquisitions as those that, as determined by the agency head, (1) are directed at and critical to fulfilling an agency
    mission need, (2) entail allocating relatively large resources for the particular agency, and (3) warrant special management
    attention, including specific agency-head decisions.
10 The simplified acquisition threshold is $250,000, except for conditions specified within FAR 2.101, Definitions. An unpriced

    order is an order for supplies or services, the price of which is not established at the time the order is issued.
11 Some companies—whether as a prime or subcontractor—provide products or services to several Artemis programs and are

    thus considered “critical” for the purpose of this report.



                                                                          NASA Office of Inspector General               IG-24-003   7
Figure 4: Total Artemis Suppliers and Obligations by Artemis Program (FY 2012 through FY
2022)




Source: NASA OIG summary of NASA accounting system data.
Note: The term “suppliers” is used as a generic term to indicate any contractor. The supplier count and obligations are derived
from NASA’s accounting system. The total Artemis obligations indicates any action that legally binds NASA to pay funds
immediately or in the future.

We further identified 11 suppliers that support at least two key Artemis programs and are classified as
critical according to NASA’s Critical At-Risk Industrial Technology List (CARITL). NASA has obligated
nearly $15 billion to these 11 suppliers over the last decade—nearly 40 percent of the total amount
NASA has obligated to all 860 suppliers supporting the Artemis campaign. Further, 6 of these 11
suppliers are also subcontractors to NASA’s prime contractors.


Federal Supply Chain Activities
Since 2017, federal policymakers have taken an increased interest in strengthening America’s supply
chains and industrial base, which have experienced longstanding challenges exacerbated by recent
global events like the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Five major initiatives—three
government-wide Executive Orders and two NASA-specific efforts—are described below.

    •    On July 21, 2017, President Trump signed Executive Order 13806, Assessing and Strengthening
         the Manufacturing and Defense Industrial Base and Supply Chain Resiliency of the United States,
         to focus on assessing manufacturing capacity; supply chains with single points of failure,
         especially third-tier suppliers and lower; and the availability of alternative sources.
    •    On January 25, 2021, President Biden signed Executive Order 14005, Ensuring the Future is
         Made in All of America by All of America’s Workers, a government-wide initiative to strengthen
         the use of federal procurement to support American manufacturing.
    •    On February 24, 2021, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, President Biden signed Executive
         Order 14017, America’s Supply Chains, to focus on the United States’ need for a more resilient,
         diverse, and secure supply chain, particularly in the face of pandemics and geopolitical issues.




                                                                     NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-003      8
    •   On August 9, 2022, President Biden signed into law the 2022 NASA Authorization Act, which
        states, “Not later than 1 year after the enactment of this Act, and from time to time thereafter,
        the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the
        United States industrial base for NASA civil space missions and operations.” The report must
        provide, but is not limited to, a description of the status of NASA’s industrial base, a description
        of weaknesses in the supply chain, and a description of mechanisms and steps to mitigate supply
        chain weaknesses. The SCRF is currently tasked with meeting the reporting requirement.
    •   Most recently, on March 6, 2023, the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security
        announced a joint effort with NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
        to collect data from the civil space industrial base. The goal of this effort is to better understand
        the civil space supply chain network. The data will cover diminishing manufacturing sources and
        material shortages, foreign sourcing and dependencies, cybersecurity incidents, critical minerals
        and materials, COVID-19 pandemic impacts, and other challenges.


Prior NASA Study on Supply Chain Issues
In 2011, NASA contracted with the consultancy group Logistics Management Institute to assess NASA’s
supply chain management and risks. While not specific to any individual program at the Agency, the
study was based on research of industry best practices, surveys of relevant NASA personnel, and
interviews with industry professionals involved in supply chain management. In December 2011, the
Institute released a report titled Strategies for Mitigating NASA’s Supplier Viability Risk, which discussed
several risk-identification techniques, including using all available data to identify risks before a supplier
is selected, identifying and closely monitoring critical suppliers, using metrics to anticipate supplier
warning signs, and utilizing reviews to continuously collect information on suppliers. The report also
identified multiple proactive risk mitigation strategies that could be used to avoid certain risks before
they occur. The report included several recommendations for NASA to implement these mitigation
strategies, some of which include:

    •   Establish an enterprise-level supplier risk team with a formal charter: This group would be
        responsible for Mission Directorate-level supplier program management.
    •   Integrate risk mitigation into NASA’s sourcing process: Contractually require prime contractors
        to provide a description of their supplier risk management processes.
    •   Use a supplier profile database for analysis and evaluation: Enable program managers to
        evaluate potential suppliers during source selection and afterwards to track trends.
    •   Incorporate contract language that requires reporting metrics: Contractually require prime
        contractors to provide data regarding their subcontractors and suppliers.

Though the report was issued over a decade ago, as of May 2023 NASA has not fully implemented any of
the recommendations. Some of the recommendations may be addressed as part of ongoing efforts
within the SCRF and through development of the Insight Central database. In our view, because of
continued supply chain issues with the Artemis programs and the long lead times needed to build
certain components, these recommendations remain valid.




                                                            NASA Office of Inspector General    IG-24-003   9
ARTEMIS SUPPLY CHAIN CHALLENGES PERSIST AS
NASA’S EFFORTS TO IMPROVE MANAGEMENT OF ITS
SUPPLIERS ARE EVOLVING

NASA and its prime contractors are experiencing challenges with availability of key components and
other necessary supplies to meet Artemis goals, resulting in program cost increases and schedule delays.
These challenges can be attributed to several factors including the Agency’s limited visibility into the
suppliers that support its major Artemis programs, geopolitical issues, workforce challenges, and
competition with the Department of Defense (DoD) over a limited number of suppliers. Even though
the Artemis programs and contractors use numerous techniques to mitigate supply chain issues, these
methods are largely reactive and have resulted in varying degrees of success. As lessons learned from
other agencies and industries have shown, proactive management could decrease costs and delays by
allowing the Agency to make critical supply chain decisions earlier in the acquisition process.

Challenges Obtaining Key Components Have Resulted in
Cost Increases and Schedule Disruptions to Artemis
Programs
Ongoing supply chain challenges are affecting NASA and its prime contractors, leading to cost increases
and schedule delays to the Artemis campaign goals. Specifically, critical components such as valves and
EEE (electrical, electronic, and electromechanical) parts, and critical resources such as helium, are not
consistently available when needed. For the SLS Program, program officials have identified $18.5 million
in increased costs because of supply chain impacts for Core Stage 2 related delays in obtaining materials
such as helium, valves, and feedlines. For the Orion capsule being developed for Artemis III, issues with
hardware suppliers and obtaining components in a timely manner have resulted in a projected cost
increase of at least $41 million. According to an Orion Program official, this represents about 50 percent
of the total projected growth in direct costs for the Artemis III crew capsule. Furthermore, as of April
2023, the Artemis III Orion delivery has been delayed by 11
months due to the hardware suppliers’ schedule
performance. However, these cost and schedule increases
do not reflect the total supply chain impact to the Artemis
campaign. Many Artemis programs and projects do not
separately track their prime contractors’ supply chain
impacts. Nonetheless, the majority of the Artemis prime
contractors we interviewed stated that long-lead times and
increased costs for raw materials and resources are major
challenges in procuring critical parts.




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   10
Valves
Valves are a critical component to the Artemis campaign, supporting several different systems. They are
highly specialized pieces of equipment that must withstand high pressure and temperatures. As such,
only a few valve suppliers have the expertise to meet NASA’s stringent requirements, leading to the
longer lead times Artemis programs are experiencing in procuring valves. For example, Lockheed
Martin, the prime contractor for the Orion Program, reported that the few suppliers it uses to obtain
valves are also used by other NASA programs. Representatives from the SLS Program also indicated they
are waiting for pre-valves from suppliers, and the delay in getting them could take months. 12 Without
these pre-valves, further development of the core stage will be halted as they wait for the parts,
resulting in continued schedule slips.


EEE Parts
EEE parts are mostly small components—such as microcircuits,
capacitors, diodes, and transistors—that are the building blocks of
a spacecraft. These components are critical to the Artemis
campaign programs and projects and are subjected to harsh
environmental and application stress. However, the suppliers for
EEE parts are experiencing issues obtaining raw materials,
challenges with their workforce, and technical failures during
production. These challenges are creating longer than expected
lead times and price increases of up to 300 percent. Further, as
NASA relies on regions outside of the U.S. for these parts—such as
Asia—U.S. government regulations and restrictions impact NASA’s
ability to procure these resources in a timely and cost-effective
manner. Officials from both the Gateway Program and the
Habitation and Logistics Outpost project mentioned difficulty
obtaining EEE parts, stating that electronic parts may not be available to support their project milestone
dates, which in turn could lead to significant schedule delays. Specifically, the Gateway Program
reported lead times in obtaining EEE parts of at least 7 to 12 months. In addition, Habitation and
Logistics Outpost project representatives stated they were having issues obtaining semiconductors, and
their suppliers have been affected by supply and demand issues in obtaining the necessary raw
materials and components.




12 A pre-valve is a type of valve used in the SLS core stage main propulsion system that controls the supply of liquid oxygen and

  hydrogen to RS-25 engines.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-003      11
Helium
Helium is a critical resource that has multiple aerospace purposes, such as cooling fiber-optic cables and
semiconductor magnets, transferring heat away from computer chips during production, and as a
                                                  pressurizing agent for liquid fuel rockets. NASA also uses
                                                  helium to keep hot gases and ultra-cold liquid fuel
                                                  separated during a rocket launch. Over the past nearly
                                                  20 years, the helium market has experienced periods of
                                                  global shortages, resulting in rising costs and long lead
                                                  times. The helium shortage was exacerbated in
                                                  September 2022 when the U.S. Bureau of Land
                                                  Management ended the Federal Helium Program, which
                                                  maintained a national helium reserve, enrichment plan,
                                                  and pipeline. This resulted in federal users turning to
                                                  the open market for helium. Due to its scarcity, the
                                                  nationwide costs for liquid helium have more than
                                                  doubled. As such, both NASA and Artemis prime
                                                  contractors expressed concerns about obtaining helium
at reasonable costs and in a timely manner. Specifically, SLS Program officials stated they had a helium
shortage for testing their thermal-protection foam on Core Stage 2, which impacted their schedule.

The difficulty in obtaining critical components and resources like valves, EEE parts, and helium highlights
an ongoing challenge for the Artemis campaign. Both NASA programs and the prime contractors have
expressed concerns about the supply chain that are impacting both cost and schedule across multiple
programs and projects.

Challenges in NASA’s Artemis Supply Chain Are Caused
by a Variety of Factors

NASA Lacks Visibility into its Critical Suppliers for the Artemis
Campaign
NASA lacks the data necessary to comprehensively identify all subcontractors and sub-tier suppliers
supporting the Artemis campaign. Despite ongoing efforts, NASA currently does not maintain a single
database that houses all known suppliers and any known performance challenges. During the audit we
attempted to identify the universe of subcontractors for the Artemis campaign. This effort proved to be
complex, and despite the aggregation and analysis of multiple data sources across NASA, we were
unable to develop a complete list of subcontractors. However, we found that through the Agency’s
accounting system, the Agency tracks all contractors and suppliers that are directly funded by NASA,
specifically those that are using a cost-reimbursement contract. Beyond those, the Agency has some
insight into the subcontractors that the contracting officer has specifically identified through the
consent to subcontract clause. However, this clause is only required in limited fixed-price situations,
and we ultimately found NASA’s insight into the subcontractors of the Artemis-related fixed-price
contracts to be minimal. As the Agency attempts to move toward fixed-price and service-type contracts
to mitigate cost and schedule risk, NASA’s visibility into those primes' supplier chains will continue to
diminish. This incomplete visibility into the supply chain leaves NASA further exposed to schedule risk
and hinders NASA’s strategic management of its supply chain.


                                                          NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003    12
Even when subcontractors and suppliers are known, their performance challenges are not broadly
communicated across Artemis programs and projects to enable NASA to be better informed when
making procurement decisions for other programs and projects. For example, according to Orion
Program officials, one of Orion’s subcontractors has ongoing performance issues that may impact the
Orion vehicles for future Artemis launches. However, these performance challenges were not shared
across the Agency, and NASA ultimately selected the same subcontractor as a prime contractor for
another Artemis-related system. According to Orion Program officials, if they had known this company
was being considered for another NASA award, they would have shared their concerns with the
appropriate officials. Over the past year, the subcontractor’s management, schedule, and performance
for the Orion Program continues to decline, as does its performance as a prime contractor for the other
system.

According to federal contracting guidance, prime contractors are responsible for managing their
subcontractors. 13 As such, the Artemis programs and projects rely on their prime contractors to track
supplier challenges and mitigate issues as needed. The prime contractors are under no obligation to
communicate known issues with their subcontractors or suppliers to NASA until there is a risk that the
program’s schedule or costs will be impacted. However, this leaves NASA to address risks reactively
rather than proactively. For example, both the Gateway and Orion Programs are experiencing schedule
delays related to obtaining EEE parts that may impact launch dates. While NASA is developing
mitigation plans with the contractor to address these issues, increased visibility of its subcontractors
may allow the Agency to identify and address these challenges sooner and minimize potential schedule
impact.


Space Industrial Base Hindered by Recent and Ongoing Global
Events
Over the past several years, suppliers have been negatively impacted by COVID-19, inflation, and the
Russia-Ukraine conflict, which in turn have affected the space industrial base—the total number of
suppliers available to meet NASA’s needs. Overall, these major global events have caused significant
fluctuations in the U.S. space market that are affecting the Artemis campaign. For example, the Mobile
Launcher 2 (ML-2) project office reported a significant cost and schedule risk concerning volatile market
pricing due to supply chain issues related and unrelated to COVID-19 and global labor shortages.

COVID-19 Impact. Several prime contractors for Artemis systems reported negative impacts of
COVID-19. Lockheed Martin reported that its supply base was impacted by COVID-19 between 2020 and
2021, contributing to increased lead times. Some of its sub-tier suppliers shut down their facilities due
to local restrictions, and employee exposure/sickness affected program plans as well. Lockheed Martin
also noted that some suppliers requested equitable adjustments due to impacts from COVID-19.
Bechtel, the prime contractor for the ML-2, cited staff attrition following the onset of COVID-19, with
more people leaving the workforce or opting for positions that offer telework or remote work.

Inflation. According to the SLS Program, prime contractors have been affected by wage and material
cost increases. Projected inflation in prices for labor and materials represent a risk to the program’s
purchasing power, resulting in funding inefficiencies and cost and schedule growth. NASA’s Office of the
Chief Financial Officer is tracking how global and U.S. inflation adversely impact NASA’s purchasing
power and may jeopardize the Agency’s ability to complete all planned missions within current cost and

13 FAR 42.202(e)(2), Assignment of Contract Administration.




                                                              NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   13
schedule estimates. Officials from Boeing, the SLS Program’s Stages prime contractor, also expressed
concerns regarding inflation and its impact on procuring materials and parts at previously agreed-upon
rates.

Russia-Ukraine Conflict. The conflict in Ukraine has exacerbated supply chain disruptions by impacting
the movement of raw materials and industrial parts. Russia and Ukraine are responsible for
approximately 25 to 30 percent of the global supply of the noble gases xenon and krypton and
approximately 40 to 50 percent of the global supply of neon. Boeing officials explained that it has had
difficulty procuring neon, which is used for the semiconductor wafer “printing” process. Similarly, the
Power and Propulsion Element project under the Gateway Program reported slight impacts in efforts to
obtain xenon, which is necessary for propulsion systems. However, according to NASA officials, as of
August 2023, NASA’s primary contractor for the Power and Propulsion Element—Maxar—has
successfully mitigated the risk and procured the xenon needed for this system.


Contractor Workforce Challenges Exacerbate Schedule Delays
Workforce challenges have been a long-standing issue for NASA that can result in major impacts on the
supply chain for both prime contractors and their suppliers within the space industry. Several of NASA’s
prime contractors reported that they are struggling to hire and retain a qualified workforce, an issue
that can extend the time suppliers need to fulfill orders. As more contractors have entered the space
industry, the competition for qualified engineers has grown. For government contractors, this has led to
issues such as meeting the higher salary demands of the engineering workforce, resulting in difficulties
hiring and retaining experienced engineers. Furthermore, during the COVID-19 pandemic many
suppliers were forced to lay off workers and have since experienced trouble rebuilding their workforce
with knowledgeable and trained employees. As the space industrial base struggles to hire and retain a
qualified workforce, prolonged periods of understaffing contribute to parts delays and long lead times.


Underutilizing the Agency’s Logistics Management Division
Hinders Mitigation of Supply Chain Risks
While NASA’s Logistics Management Division (LMD) is a useful resource for the Artemis programs and
projects, we found it is not consistently utilized. LMD is composed of trained logisticians that analyze
life-cycle management and supply chains by working jointly with suppliers and NASA programs.
Logisticians work with the program and project officials to estimate material and supply requirements,
along with funding needs, as the project progresses from formulation through completion. Using their
expertise in logistics management, LMD logisticians can help the programs better understand their
component and resource needs earlier in the purchasing process, thereby assisting them to acquire
necessary supplies within a reasonable amount of time. In addition, they can provide support
throughout a project’s life cycle, including supply sourcing, maintenance strategies, obsolescence
planning for components, and diminishing manufacturing capabilities.

However, LMD officials stated that many of these logistician duties are assigned to others within the
Artemis programs and projects, such as program engineers, program managers, and contractors, who
may lack logistics expertise. Though NASA directives state the importance of having life-cycle support
management from the start of a program, historically LMD officials are only included when there is an




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003      14
identified issue, at which point it can be difficult to bring a program back on track. 14 In contrast to
NASA, internal DoD policy directs programs to embed life-cycle logisticians into their major programs. 15
Looking forward, in our judgment, to help identify and mitigate some of the supply chain risks more
quickly, LMD personnel should be embedded more fully into the Artemis programs. The logisticians
have access to deficiency reporting systems and can forecast parts that may be outdated or becoming
obsolete. With this level of supply chain detail, Artemis program officials, in conjunction with LMD,
could make better informed decisions from the requirements establishment process through project
completion to ensure project success.


National Security Projects Receive a Higher Priority than NASA
in the Supplier Queue
NASA’s Artemis programs and projects have encountered numerous schedule delays because they rank
lower in the priority order compared to the DoD’s national security projects for obtaining necessary
parts and materials from suppliers. The priority rating system, known as the Defense Priorities and
Allocations System (DPAS), is administered by the Department of Commerce and prioritizes national
defense-related contracts and orders throughout the U.S. supply chain to support military, energy,
homeland security, emergency preparedness, and critical infrastructure requirements. The DPAS
regulation establishes two priority levels, DX and DO. 16 A DX rating takes precedence over DO, is
assigned to those programs of the highest national priority, and must be approved by the Secretary of
Defense. While not all NASA contracts are assigned a DPAS rating, some Artemis contracts have
received the second level rating of DO. Despite having this rating, order fulfillment is delayed if a
supplier receives a DX-rated order, as all work on NASA and other DO-rated contracts stops until the
DX-rated contract needs are met. Several Artemis prime contractors and Artemis-related programs
expressed concerns about the schedule delays that result from this priority ratings system. For example,
the SLS Program reported that work on Core Stage 2 will be delayed by 3 months because the supplier
for feedlines needs to fulfill DX-rated contracts before SLS contracts.

NASA’s Strategic Oversight of its Supply Chain Is
Evolving as Efforts to Manage Disruptions Are Focused
on Immediate Needs

NASA’s Efforts to Strategically Oversee Its Supply Chain are
Evolving
NASA has initiated several efforts to gain a more comprehensive understanding and improve
cross-program visibility into its supply chain. NASA officials stated that improving visibility will better

14 NASA Policy Directive 7500.1D, Program and Project Life-Cycle Logistics Support Policy (March 2, 2015) states “Program

  Managers and Project Managers or their designated Life-Cycle Logistics Support Managers shall: (1) Integrate life-cycle
  logistics support considerations beginning with program/project conception, including: (a) Participation in the design process
  beginning at program/project conception to ensure that systems are supportable.”
15 DoD guidance outlines the various life-cycle logistics responsibilities and procedures for product support managers, such as

  developing a Life Cycle Logistics Plan and providing input to design and contract development.
16 A DX rating is used for contracts and orders of highest national defense urgency. A DO rating is used for contracts and orders

  critical to national defense.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-003         15
position them to strategically manage the array of supply chain challenges. Two internal databases—
Insight Central and PrimeE—are attempting to provide increased awareness of the past, present, and
future of NASA’s supply chains. Meanwhile, two collaboration efforts—the Supply Chain Resiliency
Forum and Holistic Agency Study—seek to improve NASA’s understanding of and intra-agency
communication about supply chain issues. While we commend NASA on its efforts to improve visibility
into its supply chain, these efforts remain early in their implementation with no discernible results yet.
Additionally, individual Artemis program and project offices are not yet directly involved in these efforts,
raising the possibility that efforts to improve strategic oversight of the Agency’s supply chain may not be
fully leveraged by the Artemis campaign.

Insight Central
Insight Central provides users with information about individual suppliers, such as the NASA programs
and projects they serve, current contracts, and any detailed supplier reports performed by the Agency. 17
The database has been operational since March 2021, less than 2 years after creation of the SCRM
Program in October 2019. Currently, the database requires manual input from program personnel to
remain up to date. However, program personnel across the Agency are not regularly inputting data,
either by choice or because they are not aware the database exists. As a result, while some suppliers
are in the database, there is little information about products they provide or if they have encountered
past performance issues. The lack of complete and up-to-date data is particularly noticeable for Artemis
programs and projects, with much of the existing information focused on smaller, uncrewed systems.

In addition, even when relevant information on Artemis suppliers is present, Artemis program officials
do not consult the database. For example, Masten Space Systems, an aerospace manufacturer that was
awarded a $75.9 million Commercial Lunar Payload Services (CLPS) contract by NASA in 2020, filed for
bankruptcy in July 2022. 18 In 2021, a report uploaded to Insight Central noted Masten’s “vulnerability to
economic conditions and risks as a small, privately held enterprise” and “lack of available information on
the management of suppliers and overall supply chain.” Prior to announcing bankruptcy, Masten’s
inaugural mission was delayed by a year due to supply chain issues. A more enterprise-wide and
consistent use of Insight Central could have alerted NASA to this risk and enabled more proactive
schedule management rather than noting it after it already occurred. Further, improved Agency insight
prior to awarding the contract would have revealed the company’s financial risk, which could have been
considered during the acquisition process.

In addition to NASA program personnel, we also found that the Agency’s contracting officials are not
regularly utilizing this database to identify supplier issues or industrial base challenges before approving
subcontract requests. Per federal guidance, the contracting officers are required to review proposals
and provide their formal written consent or non-consent to the prime contractor to use a




17 The detailed supplier reports are Supplier Research and Analysis Reports, which provide a detailed view of a supplier’s

  business management; design, production, and technical risks; security issues; and any other concerns.
18 Initiated in 2018, NASA’s CLPS initiative is intended to allow rapid acquisition of lunar delivery services from American

  companies for payloads that advance science, exploration, and commercial development of the Moon. As part of the Lunar
  Discovery and Exploration Program in the Science Mission Directorate, CLPS awards cover end-to-end delivery services
  including integration, launch and landing, and mission operations. NASA OIG initiated an audit of the CLPS initiative in May
  2023.



                                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-003    16
subcontractor. 19 However, many NASA program officials noted that they do not provide input on who
the prime contractors should select as subcontractors.

Insight Central is a key piece of NASA’s efforts to increase supply chain visibility throughout the Agency.
In general, the SCRM Program hopes the database will enable more proactive supply chain management
across NASA through the identification of domestic sourcing challenges and associated alternatives or
mitigations. Specific upcoming Insight Central developments include incorporation of data from several
sources, including a database from the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) that includes
quality and delivery information; an extensive civil space industrial base survey; and a Supply Chain
Visibility Data Requirement Description (DRD) document to obtain supplier data from prime contractors.

PrimeE
A similar but separate supply chain database is PrimeE, managed by NASA’s LMD. PrimeE—drawing
primarily from the System for Award Management and the Federal Procurement Data System—has
multiple capabilities, including overlaying supply chain visualizations onto maps that display various
types of risks. 20 An early version of PrimeE was developed 15 years ago to help simulate the economic
impact from the retirement of the Space Shuttle Program. At the time, program officials were
interested in learning more about the lower tiers of their supply chains: who the most critical suppliers
were, which suppliers would be needed for the follow-on program, and who were the sole-source
suppliers (i.e., companies that were the only ones manufacturing a particular product). After helping
answer those questions, the database was shelved for the next several years.

Currently, PrimeE has several focus areas for its analysis and modeling capabilities, such as identifying
sole- and alternate-source suppliers and mapping relationships between suppliers and NASA programs—
visualizing a program’s supply chain for multiple tiers. As a test case, LMD partially mapped the supply
chain for RS-25 engines—four of which are used on each SLS flight—with overlaid risks. The tool can
also run different economic resiliency simulations based on different scenarios (e.g., variability in
demand, financial liquidity of a supplier) to measure the health of a segment of the industrial base. In
this sense, PrimeE shows promise because it can identify future supply chain issues rather than only
reporting issues that have already occurred. Moving forward, LMD plans for PrimeE to complement—
not replace—existing supply chain tools such as Insight Central. While LMD officials stated they would
be interested in ensuring PrimeE and Insight Central interact with one another, the SCRM Program has
not currently agreed to this type of interface.

Supply Chain Resiliency Forum
Formed in March 2022, the SCRF serves as a discussion forum for representatives from across the
Agency to coordinate, communicate, and gather information about supply chain-related activities. As of
July 2023, the SCRF continues to develop its mission and goals and plans to establish a charter by the
end of FY 2023. The group is composed of members with other full-time duties and therefore is often a
secondary priority. Further, not all Centers or Mission Directorates are represented in the group (nor is
anyone from the aerospace industry), though there have been a notable number of external

19 FAR Subpart 44.2, Consent to Subcontracts. Further, the NASA FAR Supplement 1844.202-1(b), Consent to Subcontracts,

  Responsibilities, requires contracting officers to document subcontract consent reviews using the Subcontract Consent
  Review template.
20 The System for Award Management is a government-wide registry for vendors doing business with the federal government.

  The Federal Procurement Data System is the real-time database that serves the government acquisition community as the
  authoritative source of contract information.



                                                                    NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-003    17
engagements with other agencies and organizations to discuss supply chain efforts. 21 In addition to
sharing ongoing efforts and benchmarking supply chain management techniques against other federal
agencies, the SCRF is working with NASA’s Office of Procurement to develop the Supply Chain Visibility
DRD for inclusion into prime contracts.

The Supply Chain Visibility DRD will contractually mandate that NASA’s prime contractors provide supply
chain information on the top three levels of a program’s supply chain—the prime, the prime’s
subcontractors, and the subcontractors’ suppliers. As of July 2023, the DRD was not yet finalized,
though NASA plans to have this in place by the beginning of FY 2024. Contractors will submit the data to
NASA, which will then house it within Insight Central. Once the data from the DRD is incorporated into
Insight Central, anyone at NASA will be able to share issues they might have with a supplier, further
increasing information sharing across programs and the Agency overall. The requirement will apply to
procuring products and services for programs and projects on NASA’s Agency Mission Program and
Project List, which includes Artemis projects like the SLS Block 1B Development, ML-2, and the
Gateway’s Power and Propulsion Element. NASA will implement the DRD on new procurements that
meet certain requirements, with the option to incorporate it into existing contracts.

The goal is for prime contractors to provide this information freely to NASA, though several Agency
officials told us that major primes have indicated they are unwilling to do so, citing costs associated with
gathering the information. While this data collection is a crucial first step, the database will only be
helpful if NASA personnel use it. To that point, several program officials we interviewed doubted the
usefulness of a comprehensive supply chain database, instead preferring that NASA’s prime contractors
manage the issue.

Holistic Agency Study
Another ongoing Agency effort to better understand its supply chains is the Holistic Agency Study. Led
by representatives from NASA’s Office of Technology, Policy and Strategy and Office of the Chief
Engineer, the study was conducted from late 2021 to 2023. The study used a broad survey of NASA
stakeholders to learn how supply chain management is handled across the Agency—in addition to
specific issues they face—and will ultimately provide recommendations to NASA upon its release,
expected during summer 2023. As of June 2023, preliminary results highlight NASA’s siloed supply chain
structure, with various groups working on their own issues, and the lack of a cohesive approach or
awareness across Centers, programs, and projects. Further, initial results from the study show that
supply chain issues are almost always a surprise to NASA, resulting in reactive “crisis management” by
programs and projects. While solutions are usually found, NASA lacks an integrated approach or
cross-project resolution to the problem. As of July 2023, the final report has not been released.

NASA and Contractor Efforts to Mitigate Supply Chain
Disruptions Focus on Specific and Immediate Challenges
In addition to taking steps to increase visibility into the supply chain, the Artemis programs and their
prime contractors are taking some measures to mitigate the numerous supply chain disruptions. While
these efforts vary between NASA and its contractors, NASA’s actions are primarily reactive whereas the

21 As of January 2023, SCRF membership included representatives from the following groups: Office of the Administrator;

  Common Exploration Systems Development Division; Science Mission Directorate; Space Technology Mission Directorate;
  Office of the Chief Engineer; Office of Technology, Policy and Strategy; Office of International and Interagency Relations;
  Office of Procurement; Office of the Chief Financial Officer; and Office of Safety and Mission Assurance. All representatives
  are located at NASA Headquarters.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-003         18
contractors’ actions include proactive strategies. Both of these approaches have experienced varying
degrees of success.

When faced with supply chain challenges, NASA has taken action to rearrange resources from one
project to another, authorized advance procurements, and coordinated with DoD for critical
components:

    •    The Orion, SLS, and EGS programs have coordinated with other programs and projects to
         procure and share resources to mitigate schedule disruptions. When the Orion Program needed
         two valves, it coordinated with the SLS Program to purchase the valves on the existing SLS
         contract, eliminating a lengthy procurement process. Similarly, within the SLS Program, the
         Boosters project office provided batteries to the Stages project to be used for qualification
         testing purposes. Additionally, the ML-1 and ML-2 project offices, within the EGS Program,
         worked together to ensure tubing necessary for ML-1 repairs after the Artemis I launch would
         be available to meet Artemis II launch goals. The ML-2 project, which did not need the tubing at
         that time, was able to provide the tubing to ML-1, thereby avoiding a 12-week delay.
    •    Another step NASA is taking is to authorize the purchase of parts earlier in a project. After the
         Stages project office experienced schedule delays for propulsion parts with Core Stages 3 and 4,
         the office authorized the contractor to start purchasing the propulsion parts earlier than planned
         to mitigate those issues for Core Stages 5 and 6. This advanced purchasing is intended to
         prevent schedule slips resulting from late deliveries.
    •    Finally, NASA has developed partnerships through the Space Industrial Base Working Group, a
         multi-agency partnership focused on establishing and sustaining the U.S. space industrial base, to
         assist with supply chain issues.22 On one occasion, NASA noticed that a major supplier for
         reaction wheels was de-prioritizing Agency orders.23 The Space Industrial Base Working Group
         provided NASA with funding to assist another supplier with producing reaction wheels, which
         alleviated some of the order backlog.

In contrast, NASA’s prime contractors utilize a variety of tools, including bulk-buys, in-house
manufacturing, and maintaining supplier databases, to proactively mitigate supply chain disruptions. For
example, bulk ordering allows a contractor to build an internal inventory of common items instead of
making an order for a component as needed. Similarly, in-house manufacturing allows the contractor to
avoid long lead times from their suppliers. Another technique contractors use is managing supply chain
dashboards and databases to maintain insight into their supply chains. These databases can store
information about suppliers and be used to provide a supplier rating, which is determined by assessing
supplier deliveries, technical performance, and adherence to deadlines. Table 2 outlines several other
mitigation measures used by Artemis prime contractors.




22 The Space Industrial Base Working Group is composed of NASA and other U.S. spacefaring agencies and includes members

  from the Missile Defense Agency, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency, and Air Force Research
  Laboratory. Part of the working group’s focus is to establish and sustain sufficient demand in the U.S. market to support the
  U.S. space industrial base.
23 Reaction wheels are used to provide attitude control—or orientation while in orbit—and stability on a spacecraft.




                                                                     NASA Office of Inspector General          IG-24-003      19
Table 2: Artemis Contractor Supply Chain Mitigation Techniques
                    Techniques                                          Description/Intended Benefits

 Bulk-buys for common parts                              Saves money and increases stock of parts on hand to
                                                         use across programs
 Ongoing and direct communication with                   Facilitates discussions of supply chain issues
 suppliers
 Leverage company’s own financial                        Allows for earlier ordering of parts and materials to
 resources                                               lessen the risk of schedule slippage from delivery delays

 In-house manufacturing                                  Streamlines acquisition processes and vertically
                                                         integrates supply chain
 Involving NASA to promote the mission                   Spotlights supplier’s role in unique and exciting space
 directly to suppliers                                   flight missions direct from the Agency
 Seeking products internationally                        Widens the industrial base when domestic suppliers
                                                         cannot meet schedule/requirements
 Internal dashboard/database                             Tracks subcontractor and supplier performance
Source: NASA OIG summary of interviews with Artemis contractors.


Other Agencies and Industries Offer Best Practices and
Benchmarking Opportunities for NASA
As part of our review, we identified a variety of supply chain management best practices and
benchmarking opportunities from other federal agencies, an international partner, and private sector
companies. Specifically, we found that the Navy, Army, Air Force, and DCMA are each, to varying
degrees, refining their insight into their supply chains. In addition, the European Space Agency (ESA)—
one of NASA’s main international partners for the Artemis campaign—illustrates how NASA can improve
its management of unique supply chains. Further, we researched best practices from private sector
companies outside of the space flight sector—the automobile industry, in particular—that face similar
supply chain difficulties to NASA.

Department of the Navy
In 2014, the Department of the Navy began developing a supply chain database that now allows it to
identify its most critical suppliers based on several factors, including parts with long lead times, high
dollar values, and those from single or sole sources. The main data sources for the database include
shipyard purchase orders—which outline individual parts purchased, the cost of the part, and
information about the supplier—as well as supplier quality and delivery data from the Navy’s Product
Data Reporting and Evaluation Program (PDREP) database. 24 In recent years, the Navy began
implementing Contract Data Requirement Lists (a required data submission from the contractor similar
to NASA’s DRDs) into contracts to require shipbuilders to continue to provide this information.
Codifying these requirements into major contracts allows the Navy to receive vast quantities of data it

24 PDREP enables the reporting, collection, and use of supplier performance information. It supports the Navy’s oversight and

  management of the supply chain, ensuring first time quality and on-time delivery of materials. Information housed in the
  database includes material deficiencies, engineering reports, supplier audits, and surveys.



                                                                     NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-003      20
can use to maintain visibility into its supply chains. NASA is currently developing the Supply Chain
Visibility DRD that would provide the Agency with similar supply chain information from its prime
contractors.

Department of the Army
One office we spoke to within the Department of the Army gains extensive insight into its supply chains
by utilizing an existing contract vehicle with a third-party service. While the service is costly, the
capabilities are robust, and Army officials told us it is extremely useful. 25 Dashboards are populated
with supplier data from bills of material from several Army programs and supplemented with open-
source data and reports created using artificial intelligence. These dashboards, as well as specialized
reports, provide more transparency and traceability of the Army’s critical suppliers compared to NASA.
For example, recent reports include one that provides a detailed assessment of a particular raw material
and an evaluation of a key supplier based on several risk factors, including foreign influence, hardware,
and financial solvency. Overall, this service allows for easier identification of, for example, program
bottlenecks or suppliers with foreign ownership. In contrast, NASA has no such capability and must rely
heavily on its prime contractors to maintain lower tier visibility into supply chains. As a result, NASA
lacks early visibility into any challenges with or concerns about suppliers that may ultimately impact
program costs and schedule.

Department of the Air Force
The Department of the Air Force is collaborating with NASA’s Aeronautics Research Institute to lead a
supply chain working group for NASA’s Advanced Air Mobility mission. While the group is mostly an
educational forum given the nascency of the drone market its members are studying, the working group
actively engages with industry to establish relationships and discuss ideas. According to working group
leadership, suppliers embraced the opportunity to meet with the Air Force and NASA to engage on
these issues.

In comparison, NASA’s SCRF does not have representation from each Agency Mission Directorate or any
program-level personnel, let alone anyone from industry. Based on the amount of insight gleaned from
our discussions with Artemis prime contractors, a fuller and more holistic membership for the SCRF
would provide additional perspectives on important supply chain issues.

Defense Contract Management Agency
DCMA is taking several actions to improve its supply chain management. The agency is transitioning
from two separate internal databases to the Navy’s PDREP database to oversee its supply chain
management and increase the fidelity of data on its suppliers. 26 Additionally, as a best practice, DCMA
ensures a logistician or quality assurance individual is integrated on a contract from start to finish for
better oversight and proactive resolution. As noted earlier, NASA does not fully utilize its logistics
personnel for Artemis programs.

Separately, NASA could better utilize DCMA’s contract administration capability to improve its overall
supply chain management. Contract administration is an important component of supply chain

25 According to General Service Administration representatives, the fee for the system is about $90,000 per year, with the cost

  of individualized reports ranging from a few thousand to several hundred thousand dollars.
26 NASA’s SCRM Program is also working to leverage PDREP by connecting data from the PDREP into the Agency’s Insight

  Central database.



                                                                      NASA Office of Inspector General         IG-24-003      21
management, given that supply chain management should occur throughout a program’s life cycle.
Effective contract administration can improve supply chain management by mitigating risks and
improving relationships with suppliers. To this end, DCMA has extensive experience administering
complex contracts on behalf of other agencies with defense suppliers, many of whom also supply to
NASA. While both DCMA and NASA officials are often physically located in a contractor’s facility, DCMA
officials told us that the biggest advantage that DCMA has over NASA when it comes to contract
administration is that, unlike NASA, DCMA is not the buying authority (e.g., Navy, Army, Air Force).
According to DCMA officials, this lack of buying authority allows for a more independent assessment of a
contractor’s progress and performance, including its management of its subcontractors and suppliers.

Despite DCMA offering to perform full or partial contract management for NASA at a minimal cost,
according to DCMA representatives, NASA does not utilize DCMA expertise as often as it could. To its
credit, NASA has been working with DCMA since 2021 to develop a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) to better align expectations and responsibilities between the two agencies with respect to
contract administration services. The MOU is expected to be signed later this calendar year and would
create an Executive Steering Group, co-led by representatives of each agency, with an aim to improve
communication, planning, and resource-sharing between the agencies. One priority of the MOU is to
increase leveraging of DCMA’s capabilities, specifically in identifying supply chain risks. Overall, the
agreement will allow NASA to take better advantage of what is currently an underutilized resource for
its supply chain management.

European Space Agency
The European Space Agency (ESA) has several supply chain management methods from which NASA
could learn. These include centralized Artemis project management support, periodic assessment of key
suppliers, and contractual requirements for primes to report suppliers. ESA officials specifically noted
that the close physical proximity of its Artemis program and project management personnel is beneficial
for information sharing about supplier issues and a stark contrast to NASA’s approach, in which Artemis
programs are spread across multiple Centers.

Automobile Manufacturing Industry
U.S. automobile manufacturers use various techniques to proactively manage their supply chains. In
response to the global microchip shortage and other pandemic-related disruptions, one automaker
emphasized improved monitoring systems. This involved identifying the most important links in the
supply chain, flagging issues in real time, and investing in digital tools to track signals, all of which was
overseen by a newly created team with a codified governance structure and process. In the industry as
a whole, enhanced visibility into lower tiers of supply chains to identify “bottleneck suppliers” was
identified as a critical capability.




                                                            NASA Office of Inspector General    IG-24-003   22
CONCLUSION

NASA relies on contractors to build key components of the ambitious Artemis campaign, such as the SLS,
Orion, two mobile launchers, HLS, Gateway, and extravehicular spacesuits. As of March 2023, NASA has
obligated approximately $40 billion to 860 contractors in support of the Artemis campaign, and 59 of
those contractors support five Artemis programs—SLS, Orion, EGS, HLS, and Gateway. Further, NASA’s
contractors employ a network of subcontractors and suppliers to provide necessary hardware and
services.

Numerous challenges to these supply chains have resulted in limited supplies and materials. These
challenges are affecting both NASA and its prime contractors, leading to cost increases and schedule
delays to meet the Artemis program and project goals. Critical components and resources, such as
valves, EEE parts, and helium, are often not available when needed. Further, delivery of the Orion
vehicle for Artemis III has been delayed by 11 months because of supply chain issues. Nonetheless,
these cost and schedule increases do not reflect the total supply chain-related impact for the Artemis
campaign as NASA does not track supply chain effects separately on its prime contracts. Currently, the
Artemis program and project officials rely on the prime contractors to understand and track their supply
chain issues, leaving NASA in a reactive mode to mitigate the effects.

NASA does not have comprehensive visibility into the Artemis campaign’s subcontractors or sub-tier
suppliers, preventing NASA from strategically managing the numerous and ongoing challenges affecting
the Artemis supply chain. Further, factors such as geopolitical issues, workforce challenges, failure to
incorporate NASA’s logisticians throughout the contracts’ lifecycle, and competition with DoD over
products from a limited number of suppliers all contribute to the Agency’s supply chain issues. NASA’s
efforts to improve internal databases and encourage greater collaboration are ongoing and still evolving
and have not yet produced the necessary visibility to increase NASA’s strategic management of the
Artemis supply chain.




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   23
RECOMMENDATIONS, MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSE,
AND OUR EVALUATION


To improve NASA’s management and visibility into its supply chain, we recommended the Executive for
the Supply Chain Resiliency Forum:

   1. Establish a charter for the existing Supply Chain Resiliency Forum, to include representation
      from the Moon to Mars Program Office and major Artemis prime contractors.
   2. Complete the Supply Chain Visibility Data Requirement Description effort to gain supplier data
      from contractors.
   3. Provide training to contracting officers on FAR Subpart 44.2 - Consent to Subcontracts, so that
      the contracting officers will utilize available supplier data to determine whether the contractor
      should enter a contract with a particular subcontractor.

To improve NASA’s management of the Artemis supply chain, we recommended the Associate
Administrator for Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate:

   4. Centralize supply chain management for the Artemis campaign within the Moon to Mars
      Program Office.
   5. Ensure data is regularly entered into a supplier database (e.g., Insight Central) to track supplier
      data and ongoing challenges.
   6. Incorporate a representative from the Logistics Management Division into each Artemis-related
      program and project at appropriate milestones, including at the onset of a contract and each
      life-cycle milestone.
   7. Ensure an Artemis-specific study of the Agency’s industrial base and supply chain is completed
      on a recurring basis.

We provided a draft of this report to NASA management who concurred with recommendations 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, and 7, and partially concurred with recommendation 6. We consider management’s comments
responsive to recommendations 1, 3, 4, 5, and 7, and therefore those recommendations are resolved
and will be closed upon completion and verification of the proposed corrective actions. However, we
found the Agency’s response to recommendations 2 and 6 unresponsive. Consequently, those
recommendations will remain unresolved pending further discussions with the Agency.

NASA concurred with recommendation 2 to complete the Supply Chain Visibility Reporting DRD, which
will provide the Agency with data for three tiers of suppliers to better understand its supply
chains. While the Agency notes the DRD will be applied to new procurements under certain criteria, it
does not mention if it will be applicable to NASA’s many existing Artemis-related contracts. In our
judgment, without including existing Artemis-related contracts in its reporting, the Agency will be
missing key data necessary to comprehensively identify subcontractors and sub-tier suppliers supporting
the Artemis campaign.




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003     24
NASA partially concurred with recommendation 6 to incorporate a representative from the Logistics
Management Division (LMD) into Artemis programs and projects at appropriate milestones, stating that
the Agency will consider utilizing a representative for key program life-cycle reviews and assessments
conducted at the Moon to Mars Program Office level. While we are encouraged that NASA will
“consider utilizing” an LMD representative, in our judgment, embedding LMD personnel more fully into
the Artemis programs will improve identification and mitigation of supply chain risks. As we note in our
report, LMD personnel have access to deficiency reporting systems and can forecast parts that may be
outdated or becoming obsolete. With this level of supply chain detail, Artemis campaign officials, in
conjunction with LMD, could make better informed decisions from the requirements establishment
process through project completion to ensure project success.

Management’s comments are reproduced in Appendix B. Technical comments provided by
management and revisions to address them have been incorporated as appropriate.



Major contributors to this report include Ridge Bowman, Human Exploration Directorate Audits
Director; Susan Bachle, Assistant Director; Victoria Adams; Areeba Hasan; Tyler Martin; Sarah McGrath;
Courtney Daniels; Shari Bergstein; Jeremy Brown; Cody Bryant; Daniel Mills; Carlyle Webb; and Shani
Dennis.

If you have questions about this report or wish to comment on the quality or usefulness of this report,
contact Laurence Hawkins, Audit Operations and Quality Assurance Director, at 202-358-1543 or
laurence.b.hawkins@nasa.gov.
                    Digitally signed by PAUL
PAUL                MARTIN
                    Date: 2023.10.18 13:33:43
MARTIN              -04'00'

Paul K. Martin
Inspector General




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003     25
                                                                                              Appendix B




APPENDIX A: SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY
We performed this audit from August 2022 through September 2023 in accordance with generally
accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions
based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives.

In this audit, we assessed NASA’s management of the Artemis campaign's supply chain to meet its
human exploration goals, to include reviewing supply chain challenges and risks and processes to
identify and mitigate supply chain issues. To assess NASA’s supply chain management processes and
NASA’s visibility into the Artemis campaign supply chain, we conducted interviews with representatives
from the SCRF, SCRM Program, LMD, Holistic Agency Study, Office of the Chief Engineer, and Artemis
campaign program, project, and procurement officials. We also received access to the Insight Central
database and independently analyzed the information included in the database.

To understand the challenges facing both NASA and the prime contractors we developed and sent
detailed questionnaires to NASA program, project, and procurement representatives as well as the
Artemis prime contractors. We sent detailed questionnaires to each of the Artemis programs and
projects—EGS, Extravehicular Activity and Human Surface Mobility, Gateway, HLS, Orion, and SLS
programs—to include 69 individuals. We received responses from 25 individuals, providing
representation from each of the Artemis programs and projects. We also sent detailed questionnaires
to nine Artemis prime contractors and received responses from all nine: Axiom, Bechtel, Boeing, Collins,
Dynetics, Lockheed Martin, Maxar, Northrop Grumman, and SpaceX. The prime contractors that did not
agree to a follow-up interview to discuss their responses included Bechtel and Boeing. All responses
were received electronically. The results of these surveys, including follow-on interviews with select
respondents, were incorporated throughout the report. We also reviewed federal and NASA
requirements, including regulations on quality assurance and Executive Orders.

To identify critical suppliers to the Artemis campaign, we reviewed the NASA and prime contractor
survey responses and conducted interviews with select Artemis program and project representatives,
SCRM Program officials, and select prime contractors. We reviewed the CARITL, presentations
concerning critical parts and suppliers, and supply chain risks affecting program costs and schedule. We
also obtained a list of the subcontractors and suppliers from NASA for the Artemis campaign prime
contracts, although the list was not comprehensive. We further obtained known subcontractor and
supplier data from NASA’s accounting system and from USA Spending. Utilizing Power BI, we developed
an Artemis Supply Chain Dashboard of subcontractors and suppliers that NASA contracts with directly
and are used by the prime contractors using those three data sources. We identified critical suppliers
that are utilized by multiple Artemis programs and projects and by their prime contractors.

For benchmarking purposes, we conducted interviews with representatives from other government
agencies, including the departments of the Navy, Air Force, and Army and DCMA. We also reviewed
best practices from automobile manufacturing industries. We further developed and sent
questionnaires to both the European Space Agency and Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency.
However, only the European Space Agency responded to the questionnaire.




                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   26
                                                                                              Appendix B



Assessment of Data Reliability
We used computer-generated data while performing this audit. We reviewed and analyzed NASA
obligation and funding data for FYs 2012 through 2022 in NASA’s financial accounting system. The
obligation and funding data were mainly derived from Artemis mission costs: EGS, SLS, Orion, HLS, and
Gateway. We assessed the reliability of the financial data by (1) verifying the data with the NASA OIG’s
Office of Data Analytics, Artemis Supply Chain Dashboard, and Government Spending Open Data
(https://usaspending.gov); (2) reviewing data provided by NASA’s directorates and divisions, and the
prime (if furnished); and (3) interviewing Agency officials knowledgeable about this data. We
determined that the data was sufficiently reliable for the purposes of this report. As mentioned
previously in the report, we concluded that the Insight Central database is a work in progress and
incomplete. As a result, we did not use data from Insight Central for this report.


Review of Internal Controls
We reviewed and evaluated the internal controls associated with NASA’s supply chain management of
the Artemis campaign. We also reviewed appropriate policies, procedures, and regulations, and
conducted interviews with responsible personnel. We concluded that the internal controls were
adequate, but because our review was limited to these internal control components and underlying
principles, it may not have captured all internal control deficiencies at the time of this audit. Our
recommendations, if implemented, will correct the identified control weaknesses.


Prior Coverage
The NASA OIG and the Government Accountability Office have issued 23 reports containing significant
relevance to the subject of this report. Unrestricted reports can be accessed at
https://oig.nasa.gov/audits/auditReports.html and https://www.gao.gov respectively.

NASA Office of Inspector General
NASA’s Management of the Space Launch System Booster and Engine Contracts (IG-23-015, May 25,
2023)

NASA’s Partnerships with International Space Agencies for the Artemis Campaign (IG-23-004, January 17,
2023)

NASA’s Management of the Mobile Launcher 2 Contract (IG-22-012, June 9, 2022)

NASA’s Management of the Artemis Missions (IG-22-003, November 15, 2021)

NASA’s Development of Next-Generation Spacesuits (IG-21-025, August 10, 2021)

Artemis Status Update (IG-21-018, April 19, 2021)

COVID-19 Impacts on NASA’s Major Programs and Projects (IG-21-016, March 31, 2021)

NASA’s Management of the Gateway Program for Artemis Missions (IG-21-004, November 10, 2020)

NASA’s Management of the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle Program (IG-20-018, July 16, 2020)



                                                         NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   27
                                                                                             Appendix B


NASA’s Development of Ground and Flight Application Software for the Artemis Program (IG-20-014,
March 19, 2020)

Audit of NASA’s Development of its Mobile Launchers (IG-20-013, March 17, 2020)

NASA’s Management of Space Launch System Program Costs and Contracts (IG-20-012, March 10, 2020)

NASA’s Management of the Space Launch System Stages Contract (IG-19-001, October 10, 2018)

Audit of NASA’s Information Technology Supply Chain Risk Management Efforts (IG-18-019,
May 24, 2018)

NASA’s Management of Spare Parts for its Flight Projects (IG-18-001, October 5, 2017)

NASA’s Management and Development of Spacesuits (IG-17-018, April 26, 2017)

NASA’s Plans for Human Exploration Beyond Low Earth Orbit (IG-17-017, April 13, 2017)

NASA’s Parts Quality Control Process (IG-17-016, March 29, 2017)

NASA’s Management of the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle Program (IG-16-029, September 6, 2016)

Government Accountability Office
Space Launch System: Cost Transparency Needed to Monitor Program Affordability (GAO-23-105609,
September 7, 2023)

NASA: Assessments of Major Projects (GAO-23-106021, May 31, 2023)

Supply Chain Resilience: Agencies Are Taking Steps to Expand Diplomatic Engagement and Coordinate
with International Partners (GAO-23-105534, February 2, 2023)

NASA: Assessments of Major Projects (GAO-22-105212, June 23, 2022)

NASA Lunar Programs: Significant Work Remains, Underscoring Challenges to Achieving Moon Landing in
2024 (GAO-21-330, May 26, 2021)

NASA Human Space Exploration: Significant Investments in Future Capabilities Require Strengthened
Management (GAO-21-105, December 15, 2020)

NASA Lunar Programs: Opportunities Exist to Strengthen Analyses and Plans for Moon Landing
(GAO-20-68, December 19, 2019)




                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   28
                                                                                                             Appendix B



          Appendix B: Management’s Comments
                    National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                    Mary W. Jackson NASA Headquarters
                    Washington, DC 20546-0001




Reply to Attn of:   Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate


                    TO:         Assistant Inspector General for Audits

                    FROM:       Associate Administrator for Exploration Systems Development Mission
                                  Directorate and Assistant Administrator for Procurement

                    SUBJECT: Agency Response to OIG Draft Report, “NASA’s Management of the Artemis
                             Supply Chain” (A-22-14-00-HED)


                    The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) appreciates the opportunity to
                    review and comment on the Office of Inspector General (OIG) draft report entitled, “NASA’s
                    Management of the Artemis Supply Chain” (A-22-14-00-HED), dated September 6, 2023.

                     In the report, the OIG determined numerous challenges to these supply chains have resulted
                    in limited supplies and materials. These challenges affected both NASA and its prime
                    contractors, leading to cost increases and schedule delays to meet the Artemis program and
                    project goals. The OIG opined that NASA does not have comprehensive visibility into the
                    Artemis Campaign’s subcontractors or sub-tier suppliers, preventing NASA from
                    strategically managing the numerous and ongoing challenges affecting the Artemis supply
                    chain.

                    Specifically, the OIG recommends the following:

                    Recommendation 1: Establish a charter for the existing Supply Chain Resiliency Forum, to
                    include representation from the Moon to Mars Program Office and major Artemis prime
                    contractors.

                       Management’s Response: NASA concurs. The Agency-level Supply Chain Resiliency
                       Board (SCRB) will be established in September 2023, in accordance with NASA policy
                       and guidance. As set forth in the board’s charter, “the SCRB supports the Acquisition
                       Strategy Council (ASC) and the Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO) in advancing Agency
                       strategy, policy, processes, capabilities, and organizational culture for (1) the pro-active
                       assessment and management of supply chain and industrial base risks and opportunities
                       to assure resilient NASA mission performance, and (2) the fulfillment of applicable U.S.
                       Government policy and statutory requirements.” The SCRB is a substantive evolution of
                       the Supply Chain Resiliency Forum cited in the OIG report. The SCRB is designed to
                       recommend courses of action and sustainable solutions to surmount the dynamic array of
                       risks that threaten the provisioning of products and services required for NASA mission


                                                                       NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003 | 29
                                                                                        Appendix B



   success. SCRB membership consists of senior-level representatives of the member
   organizations, as follows:

   •   Office of the Administrator.
   •   Office of Technology, Policy, and Strategy.
   •   Office of International and Interagency Relations.
   •   Office of the Chief Engineer.
   •   Office of Procurement.
   •   Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
   •   Office of the Chief Information Officer.
   •   Office of Safety and Mission Assurance.
   •   Office of the General Counsel.
   •   Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate.
   •   Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate.
   •   Science Mission Directorate.
   •   Space Operations Mission Directorate.
   •   Space Technology Mission Directorate.
   •   Mission Support Directorate.
   •   Other NASA organizations and/or subject-matter experts on a permanent or ad hoc
       basis as determined by the SCRB Chair in consultation with the ASC Chair as
       warranted.

   NASA’s engagement with prime contractors and suppliers under contract for Artemis
   programs and projects and other NASA programs and projects will continue in
   accordance with established programmatic responsibilities in conjunction with applicable
   procurement and contract management policies; thus, the SCRB charter does not provide
   for the representation of NASA prime contractors in the SCRB.

   Estimated Completion Date: October 31, 2023.

Recommendation 2: Complete the Supply Chain Visibility Data Requirement Description
effort to gain supplier data from contractors.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. It is planned to complete the Agency’s
   review and approval of the proposed Data Requirements Description (DRD) for Supply
   Chain Visibility Reporting by prime contractors and an accompanying implementation
   plan via the Supply Chain Resiliency Board and the ASC and/or the CAO within the first
   quarter of fiscal year 2024. As currently formulated, the DRD will be applicable to new
   NASA procurements of products and services for programs and projects on the approved
   Agency Mission Program and Project List. The application and scope of the proposed
   DRD are further limited to supplier entities within the top three contractual tiers of
   NASA procurements (i.e., Tier 1: prime contractor to NASA; Tier 2: direct
   subcontractors to the prime contractor; Tier 3: direct suppliers to the direct
   subcontractors). The configuration of a secure application of the NASA Supply Chain
   Insight Central (SCIC) information services and analysis platform is under way to
   support the planned Supply Chain Visibility Reporting process and to provide integrated
   management of reported data and information for internal NASA planning, analysis, and

                                                   NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003 | 30
                                                                                          Appendix B



   decision-making purposes. Initial and incremental implementation of the DRD for
   Supply Chain Visibility Reporting, as approved, is targeted for the second quarter of
   fiscal year 2024.

   Estimated Completion Date: March 31, 2024.

Recommendation 3: Provide training to Contracting Officers on FAR Subpart 44.2 -
Consent to Subcontracts, so that the Contracting Officers will utilize available supplier data
to determine whether the contractor should enter a contract with a particular subcontractor.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. The Office of Procurement will provide
   refresher training to its contracting professionals on FAR Subpart 44.2, “Consent to
   Subcontracts.” This training will include how to appropriately utilize supplier data when
   making consent to subcontract decisions.

   Estimated Completion Date: September 30, 2024.

To improve NASA’s management of the Artemis supply chain, we recommend the Associate
Administrator for Exploration Systems Development Mission Directorate:

Recommendation 4: Centralize supply chain management for the Artemis campaign within
the Moon to Mars Program Office.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. NASA recently incorporated a supply chain
   integration function within the Moon to Mars Program Office. The Artemis Integration
   Manager coordinates with Artemis programs and projects within the Moon to Mars
   Program Office to identify enterprise-wide supply chain issues and threats and works
   with the programs and other stakeholders on mitigation strategies. The Artemis
   Integration Manager also coordinates with other NASA organizations and internal
   stakeholders on supply chain assessments of Artemis programs and projects and Agency-
   level supply chain risk management initiatives. The Artemis Integration Manager is also
   responsible for providing regular status updates to Exploration Systems Development
   Mission Directorate (ESDMD) and Moon to Mars Program Office leadership on the
   Artemis supply chain, including issues, threats, and efforts under way, and serves as the
   ESDMD representative to the Supply Chain Resiliency Forum.

   Estimated Completion Date: October 31, 2023.

Recommendation 5: Ensure data is regularly entered into a supplier database (e.g., Insight
Central) to track supplier data and ongoing challenges.

   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. The NASA Supply Chain Insight Central
   (SCIC) information services and analysis platform, which was launched for Agency-
   wide, operational use in March 2021, serves as a key element of the Agency’s evolving
   capabilities to build visibility and insight into the supply chains for NASA mission
   programs and projects and support the pro-active identification, analysis, and
   management of risks threatening the provisioning of products and services as required for
   mission performance. SCIC is managed and operated by the Office of Safety and


                                                     NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003 | 31
                                                                                        Appendix B


   Mission Assurance (OSMA) Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM) program in
   collaboration with other NASA organizations as a secure information system for internal
   NASA use. At present, SCIC contains records on 5,411 suppliers, including related
   supplier audit and assessment information and reports on 3,989 suppliers, and 184
   supplier research and analysis reports.

   Section 5.5 of the NASA Procedural Requirements (NPR) 8735.2C, Hardware Quality
   Assurance Program Requirements for Programs and Projects, includes a requirement for
   entering information on the scope and results of supplier audits and assessments into
   SCIC. Additional orientation and engagement activities are planned for FY 2024 to
   strengthen compliance with this requirement; however, ongoing fulfillment of this
   requirement alone is not sufficient for building and maintaining the supply chain
   visibility and insight necessary for proactive SCRM across the Agency. Accordingly,
   NASA, as described in the response to Recommendation #3, is planning to implement the
   DRD for Supply Chain Visibility Reporting by prime contractors using a new, SCIC
   application which will result in a robust flow of supplier information into SCIC for
   internal NASA planning and analysis purposes. In addition, in order to further boost
   visibility and insight into NASA supply chains, information, and data resulting from the
   U.S. Civil Space Industrial Base Survey currently under way will be incorporated into
   SCIC for use across the Agency. This ongoing survey, which is conducted by the
   Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security on behalf of NASA, will
   yield substantial data and information on about 2,000 current and potential suppliers of
   interest to NASA Mission Directorates, programs, and projects. Lastly, the OSMA
   SCRM program in conjunction with the Supply Chain Resiliency Board will continue to
   manage and assess the fulfillment of the activities described in this response and
   recommend follow-on actions as warranted to achieve the supply chain visibility and
   situational awareness necessary for the Agency’s proactive mitigation of risks threatening
   NASA supply chains and the provisioning of products and services for NASA mission
   performance.

   Estimated Completion Date: September 30, 2024.

Recommendation 6: Incorporate a representative from the Logistics Management Division
into each Artemis-related program and project at appropriate milestones, including at the
onset of a contract and each life-cycle milestone.

   Management’s Response: NASA partially concurs. The Moon to Mars Program Office
   acknowledges the benefit of logistics management expertise to large and complex
   programs and projects. NASA will consider utilizing a logistician from the Logistics
   Management Division for key program life-cycle reviews and assessments conducted at
   the Moon to Mars Program Office level.

   Estimated Completion Date: June 30, 2024.

Recommendation 7: Ensure an Artemis-specific study of the Agency’s industrial base and
supply chain is completed on a recurring basis.



                                                   NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003 | 32
                                                                                               Appendix B


   Management’s Response: NASA concurs. Artemis programs and projects participated
   in the Agency’s Holistic Supply Chain/Space Industrial Base Survey conducted in 2022.
   The Moon to Mars Program Office also engaged with the Aerospace Corporation in 2023
   and obtained several reports reflecting recent Aerospace Corporation assessments that
   provide insight into trends and issues within the space industrial base that are relevant to
   the Artemis campaign. Artemis suppliers also participated in Wave 1 of the U.S. Civil
   Space Industrial Base Assessment conducted by the Department of Commerce in
   coordination with NASA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the
   National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service. Wave 1 surveys were
   issued by the Department of Commerce/Bureau of Industry and Security to suppliers in
   March 2023. The Moon to Mars Program Office is currently working with the Office of
   Technology, Policy, and Strategy (OTPS) and Artemis programs and projects to identify
   additional Artemis suppliers for participation in the next wave of surveys. The list of
   suppliers for participation in Wave 2 surveys will be provided to OTPS in September
   2023. This action will be considered closed when the list of Artemis suppliers for
   inclusion in Wave 2 of the U.S. Civil Space Industrial Base Assessment is provided.

   Estimated Completion Date: September 30, 2023.

We have reviewed the draft report for information that should not be publicly released. As a
result of this review, we have not identified any information that should not be publicly
released.

Once again, thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the draft report. If you
have any questions or require additional information regarding this response, please contact
Ruth Siboni at (202) 358-4555.
               Digitally signed by James
                                                             Karla            Digitally signed by Karla

James Free     Free
               Date: 2023.10.10
                                                             Jackson
                                                                              Jackson
                                                                              Date: 2023.09.27
               11:44:49 -04'00'                                               12:18:51 -04'00'


James Free                                                   Karla Smith Jackson
Associate Administrator for                                  Assistant Administrator for
 Exploration Systems Development                              Procurement
 Mission Directorate




                                                    NASA Office of Inspector General      IG-24-003 | 33
                                                                                             Appendix C




APPENDIX C: REPORT DISTRIBUTION
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Administrator
Deputy Administrator
Associate Administrator
Chief of Staff
Director, Logistics Management Division
Assistant Administrator, Office of Procurement
Program Manager, Office of Safety and Mission Assurance Supply Chain Risk Management
Director, Kennedy Space Center
Director, Marshall Space Flight Center


Non-NASA Organizations and Individuals
Office of Management and Budget
    Deputy Associate Director, Climate, Energy, Environment and Science Division
Government Accountability Office
   Director, Contracting and National Security Acquisitions
European Space Agency (ESA)
    Director General of ESA
Aerojet Rocketdyne
   President
Axiom Space
    Chief Executive Officer
Bechtel Corporation
   Chief Executive Officer
Collins Aerospace
    Chief Executive Officer
Dynetics
   Chief Executive Officer
Lockheed Martin Corporation
    Chief Executive Officer
Maxar Technologies Inc.
   Chief Executive Officer
Northrop Grumman Corporation
   Chief Executive Officer
Space Explorations Technology Corporation
   Chief Executive Officer



                                                        NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   34
                                                                                         Appendix C


The Boeing Company
    Chief Executive Officer


Congressional Committees and Subcommittees, Chairman and
Ranking Member
Senate Committee on Appropriations
   Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
   Subcommittee on Space and Science
Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
House Committee on Appropriations
   Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
House Committee on Oversight and Accountability
   Subcommittee on Government Operations and the Federal Workforce
House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
   Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight
   Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics



     (Assignment No. A-22-014-00-HED)




                                                    NASA Office of Inspector General   IG-24-003   35
