EUROPEAN
                              COMMISSION




                                                       Brussels, 25.3.2025
                                                       C(2025) 1904 final

                                                       ANNEX




                                             ANNEX

                                              to the

                                      Commission Decision

     recognising certain critical raw material projects as Strategic Projects under Regulation
                 (EU) 2024/1252 of the European Parliament and of the Council




EN                                                                                               EN
                                         ANNEX
                              LIST OF STRATEGIC PROJECTS


     (1)    Ageli is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing project in France. The
            project promoted by Eramet aims to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery
            grade).
     (2)    Aguablanca project is an ongoing extraction project in Spain. The project promoted
            by Rio Narcea Recursos S.A. aims to contribute to the supply of cobalt, platinum
            group metals, copper and nickel (battery grade).
     (3)    Alpha Project is an ongoing recycling project in Italy. The project promoted by
            Solvay Chimica Italia Spa aims to contribute to the supply of platinum group metals.
     (4)    BAM4EVER (Phase I&II) is an ongoing processing project in France. The project
            promoted by Tokai COBEX savoie aims to contribute to the supply of graphite
            (battery grade).
     (5)    Barroso Lithium Project is an ongoing extraction project in Portugal. The project
            promoted by Savannah Lithium, Unipessoal, Lda. aims to contribute to the supply of
            lithium (battery grade).
     (6)    BAUX-EU, GALLANT and LEADER project is an ongoing integrated project
            consisting of one extraction (BAUX-EU) and two processing components
            (GALLENT and LEADER) in Greece. The project promoted by Metlen Energy &
            Metals and European Bauxites aims to contribute to the supply of
            bauxite/alumina/aluminium and gallium.
     (7)    CAREMAG is an ongoing processing project in France. The project promoted by
            Caremag SAS aims to contribute to the supply of rare earth elements for magnets and
            boron (metallurgy grade).
     (8)    Chvaletice Manganese Project is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing
            project in Czechia. The project promoted by Euro Manganese Inc aims to contribute
            to the supply of manganese (battery grade).
     (9)    Cínovec lithium project is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing project in
            Czechia. The project promoted by Geomet s.r.o. aims to contribute to the supply of
            lithium (battery grade).
     (10)   CirCular is an ongoing recycling project in Spain. The project promoted by Atlantic
            Copper SLU aims to contribute to the supply of copper, nickel and platinum group
            metals.
     (11)   CO2Graphite is an ongoing processing project in Estonia. The project promoted by
            UP Catalyst OU aims to contribute to the supply of graphite (battery grade).
     (12)   EMILI is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing project in France. The
            project promoted by IMERYS Ceramics France and IMERYS Lithium France aims
            to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery grade).
     (13)   European Initiative for Strategic and Sustainable Graphite Production is an ongoing
            processing project in France, Namibia and Germany. The project promoted by NGC
            Battery Materials GmbH aims to contribute to the supply of graphite (battery
            grade).




EN                                               1                                                  EN
     (14)   GePETO is an ongoing processing project in Belgium. The project promoted by
            Umicore aims to contribute to the supply of germanium.
     (15)   GALLICAM is an ongoing processing project in France. The project promoted by
            Sibanye-Stillwater Sandouville Refinery aims to contribute to the supply of nickel
            (battery grade), cobalt, lithium (battery grade), graphite (battery grade), manganese
            (battery grade) and copper.
     (16)   Hycamite TCD Technologies Ltd is an ongoing processing project in Finland. The
            project promoted by Hycamite TCD Technologies Ltd aims to contribute to the
            supply of graphite (battery grade).
     (17)   Hydrometallurgy is an ongoing recycling project in France. The project promoted by
            Orano Batteries aims to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery grade), cobalt,
            nickel (battery grade), manganese (battery grade) and graphite (battery grade).
     (18)   Jervois Finland Cobalt Refinery Expansion Project is an ongoing processing project
            in Finland. The project promoted by Jervois Finland Oy aims to contribute to the
            supply of cobalt.
     (19)   KELIBER LITHIUM is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing project in
            Finland. The project promoted by Keliber Technology Oy aims to contribute to the
            supply of lithium (battery grade).
     (20)   Kolmisoppi is an ongoing extraction project in Finland. The project promoted by
            Terrafame Ltd. aims to contribute to the supply of nickel (battery grade) and cobalt.
     (21)   Las Navas is an ongoing extraction project in Spain. The project promoted by
            Lithium Iberia S.L. aims to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery grade).
     (22)   LIFE22-ENV- IT-INSPIREE is an ongoing recycling project in Italy. The project
            promoted by Itelyum Regeneration SpA aims to contribute to the supply of rare earth
            elements for magnets.
     (23)   Lift One is an ongoing processing project in Portugal. The project promoted by
            Lifthium energy S.A. aims to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery grade).
     (24)   Lithium Hydroxide Converter Guben is an ongoing processing project in Germany.
            The project promoted by Rock Tech Guben GmbH aims to contribute to the supply
            of lithium (battery grade).
     (25)   MagFactory is an ongoing recycling project in France. The project promoted by
            MagREEsource aims to contribute to the supply of rare earth elements for magnets.
     (26)   MINA DOADE PROJECT is an ongoing extraction project in Spain. The project
            promoted by Recursos Minerales de Galicia S.A. aims to contribute to the supply of
            lithium (battery grade).
     (27)   Mining Project El Moto is an ongoing extraction project in Spain. The project
            promoted by Abenojar Tungsten S.L. aims to contribute to the supply of tungsten.
     (28)   NorthCYCLE is an ongoing recycling project in Sweden. The project promoted by
            Northvolt Revolt AB aims to contribute to the supply of manganese (battery grade),
            lithium (battery grade), graphite (battery grade), nickel (battery grade) and cobalt.
     (29)   Lombador North Phase 2, Semblana and 3rd SILO project is an ongoing integrated
            project consisting of two extraction (Lombador North Phase 2 and Semblana) and
            one processing components (3rd SILO) in Portugal. The project promoted by
            SOMINCOR aims to contribute to the supply of copper.



EN                                               2                                                  EN
     (30)   P6 Metals is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing project in Spain. The
            project promoted by Iberian Resources Spain aims to contribute to the supply of
            tungsten.
     (31)   POLVOLT is an ongoing recycling project in Poland. The project promoted by
            Elemental Battery Metals SP. z.o.o. aims to contribute to the supply of nickel
            (battery grade), copper, cobalt, lithium (battery grade), platinum group metals and
            manganese (battery grade).
     (32)   Polymetallic primary sulphide project is an ongoing integrated extraction and
            processing project in Spain. The project promoted by Cobre las Cruces S.A.U. aims
            to contribute to the supply of copper.
     (33)   Portovesme CRM Hub is an ongoing recycling project in Italy. The project promoted
            by Portovesme s.r.l. aims to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery grade) and
            manganese (battery grade).
     (34)   ProHiPerSi is an ongoing substitution project in Germany. The project promoted by
            PCC Thorion GmbH aims to contribute to the substitution of graphite (battery
            grade).
     (35)   Project Fortum Hydromet is an ongoing recycling project in Finland. The project
            promoted by Fortum Battery Recycling Oy aims to contribute to the supply of
            lithium (battery grade), graphite (battery grade), copper, nickel (battery grade) and
            cobalt.
     (36)   Pulawy Rare Earths Separation Plant is an ongoing processing project in Poland. The
            project promoted by Mkango Resources Ltd. aims to contribute to the supply of rare
            earth elements for magnets.
     (37)   RECOVER-IT is an ongoing recycling project in Italy. The project promoted by
            Circular Materials s.r.l. aims to contribute to the supply of copper, nickel (battery
            grade) and platinum group metals.
     (38)   ReeMAP Project: Malmberget, Per Geijer and Lulea Industrial Park is an ongoing
            integrated project consisting of two extraction (Malmberget and Per Geijer) and one
            processing components (Lulea Industrial Park) in Sweden. The project promoted by
            Luossavaara-Kirunavaara AB (LKAB) aims to contribute to the supply of rare earth
            elements for magnets.
     (39)   ReGAIN is an ongoing substitution project in Belgium. The project promoted by
            Umicore aims to contribute to the substitution of germanium.
     (40)   Romano Mine is an ongoing extraction project in Portugal. The project promoted by
            Lusorecursos Portugal Lithium S.A. aims to contribute to the supply of lithium
            (battery grade).
     (41)   Rovina is an ongoing extraction project in Romania. The project promoted by Euro
            Sun Mining Inc. aims to contribute to the supply of copper.
     (42)   Sakatti is an ongoing integrated extraction and processing project in Finland. The
            project promoted by Anglo American Services (UK) Ltd. Aims to contribute to the
            supply of cobalt, platinum group metals, copper and nickel (battery grade).
     (43)   SALROM Baia de Fier is an ongoing extraction project in Romania. The project
            promoted by Societatea Națională a Sării S.A.aims to contribute to the supply of
            graphite (battery grade).




EN                                               3                                                  EN
     (44)   Talga Natural Graphite ONE is an ongoing extraction project in Sweden. The project
            promoted by Talga AB aims to contribute to the supply of graphite (battery grade).
     (45)   Verde Magnesium is an ongoing extraction project in Romania. The project
            promoted by Verde Magnesium SRL aims to contribute to the supply of magnesium
            metal.
     (46)   Viridian Lithium is an ongoing processing project in France. The project promoted
            by Viridian Lithium aims to contribute to the supply of lithium (battery grade).
     (47)   Zero Carbon Lithium is an ongoing extraction project in Germany. The project
            promoted by Vulcan Energie Ressourcen GmbH aims to contribute to the supply of
            lithium (battery grade).




EN                                              4                                                EN