                                   Sustainability Report


                                      2024
                                Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency

                                            (JAXA)

本報告書は日本語版が正本であり、英文版は参考として作成されます。これら両言語版の間に
矛盾抵触がある場合、日本語版が優先します。
This report was originally written in Japanese and translated into English. The Japanese text
serves as the original, and the English text is provided for reference. If there is any conflict or
inconsistency between these two texts, the Japanese text shall prevail.
Introduction

JAXA publishes its Sustainability Report in accordance with the “Law Concerning the Promotion of
Environmental Consideration”*.
In addition to information on JAXA’s commitment to environmental load and social responsibility, this
report also provides information on our overall business activities.
We hope that this report will help many of our readers better understand JAXA.
We also hope that this report will spark interest in aerospace and JAXA, especially among those who
are interested in the various issues in our environment and society in which we live.

*Official name: “Law Concerning the Promotion of Business Activities with Environmental Consideration by Specified Corporations, etc., by
Facilitating Access to Environmental Information, and Other Measures”



In order to realize our vision, plans, and projects, the following are JAXA’s philosophy and
management policies, as well as the code of conduct for JAXA employees.

 Management
 Philosophy

To realize a safe and affluent society using space and the sky.
By utilizing leading technological developments, we will succeed
and deliver our achievements along with broader wisdom to society.
                                                                                                                     Details




                                                                                                                               Details




     Action
   Declaration


Jubilation for                 We will provide enjoyment and surprise to people
human society                  by evolving our lives.
                               We will always aim for higher goals and continue to
Aspiration for
                               aspire to create by facing up to and overcoming any
creation
                               difficulties.

Responsibility                 We will faithfully act with responsibility and pride
and pride                      to confidently meet the expectations of society.




    Table of
    Contents


     02 Top Management Commitment                                        14 Involvement in the Environment
     03 Overview of Phase 4 Medium/Long-Term                             25 Social Involvement
        Plan Based on Medium/Long- Term Goals
        04 Major Projects under the Phase 4                              35 Initiatives to Achieve SDGs
           Medium/Long-Term Plan
     06 Highlights of 2023                                               37 Space Strategy Fund Projects

         08 Management Reform Review Committee                           39 Third-Party Opinions

     10 Introduction of JAXA Projects                                    41 Review Results / Information about
                                                                            organization
    Top Management
      Commitment
                                                                                                                                                       Top Management Commitment




                                                                                                                                                             Top Management



                                                                                                                                                             Commitment




                                                                                                                                                       Summary of Phase 4


                                                                                                                                                       Medium/Long-Term
                                                         To the citizens of Japan

                                                                                                                                                       Plan
                                                             The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) has investigated the causes of
                                                         the failure to launch Epsilon Rocket No. 6 and the first H3 rocket test vehicle, as well
                                                         as the case of non-compliance with the ethical guidelines for medical research, and




                                                                                                                                                                   Highlights of 2023
                                                         has taken measures to prevent recurrence. Under these circumstances, JAXA was
                                                         pointed out in the competent minister’s evaluation in FY2022 that “a change in
                                                         awareness and other improvements are needed.” This prompted us to look back to see
                                                         if there were any issues that could not be identified from past investigation of individual
                                                         cases, or if there were broader organizational or management challenges. Then, in
                                                         September 2023, we established the “Management Reform Review Committee” under
                                                         the leadership of the JAXA President. Based on the discussions at the Committee, as
                                                         well as organization-wide discussions at SNS and Town Hall Meetings within JAXA, we

                                                                                                                                                             Management Reform
                                                         have prepared the “Management Reform Review Committee’s Report: Maximizing the
                                                         Value of People and Making the Organization Evolve Even Stronger.” We are currently
                                                         in the process of sequentially implementing the initiatives described in the report. In

                                                                                                                                                             Review Committee
                                                         October 2023, unauthorized access to several of JAXA’s business intranet servers was
                                                         discovered, and it was confirmed that some of the information managed by JAXA had
                                                         been leaked. We deeply apologize for the significant impact and distress caused to all
                                                         those affected. JAXA takes this particular case very seriously as it could damage the

                                                                                                                                                       JAXA
                                                         trust of the parties involved, and we will strengthen our measures to prevent a
                                                         recurrence.

                                                                                                                                                       Introduction of JAXA
                                                             Along with these measures, we have been dedicated to thoroughly identifying the
                                                         technical causes behind the launch failure of the initial H3 rocket test vehicle and have
                                                         taken prompt, comprehensive actions to prevent any recurrence. This commitment led
                                                         to the successful launch of the second H3 rocket test vehicle in February 2024,               Projects
     Five Slogans to Keep Us Challenging                 marking a new beginning for H3 rocket flights. We will continue our efforts to expand
                                                         Japan’s independent launch capabilities and strengthen the international
Make the space and aeronautics field                                                                                                                         Involvement in the
                                                         competitiveness of our launch services.
the ideal workplace                                          In January 2024, we achieved Japan’s first successful soft landing on the Moon with
                                                         the Smart Lander for Investigating Moon (SLIM), which deployed LEV-1, the ultra-small
                                                                                                                                                             Environment
As individuals and members of society, each of us
                                                         lunar excursion vehicle, and LEV-2 (SORA-Q), the shift type surface robot—both of
aims for a workplace that is filled with greetings and
                                                         which completed successful landings. SLIM has achieved the world’s first pinpoint
consideration for others and contributes to mutual
success by respecting each other’s individuality and     landing on the lunar surface. This success is expected to significantly enhance Japan’s
sharing the same feelings.                               presence in future international lunar exploration programs and expand opportunities




                                                                                                                                                                   Social Involvement
                                                         for new lunar exploration missions.
                                                             As part of the U.S.-led international lunar exploration program, the Artemis Program,
Revitalize Japan through space and
                                                         Japan is playing a pioneering role in developing manned pressurized rovers that
aeronautics
                                                         integrate residential and mobile functions. Providing these rovers has opened the
By being conscious of the connection between work        possibility for the first lunar landing by a Japanese astronaut.
and society, we will foster the sense to contribute to       In the field of aviation technology, we conducted a demonstration flight of sonic
our country and people as well as the international
                                                         boom reduction technology for a supersonic aircraft, which garnered a significant
community through space and aeronautics.
                                                         competitive grant in recognition of our concept to facilitate Japanese industry’s entry

                                                                                                                                                             Initiatives to Achieve
                                                         into the supersonic aircraft market. We expanded these efforts to achieve tangible
“Improve our ability to execute in space
                                                         results and promote social implementation through the acquisition of such large-scale
and aeronautics”                                         external funding.

                                                                                                                                                             SDGs
As professionals in space and aeronautics, we will           In response to the Basic Plan on Space Policy, which emphasizes JAXA's role in
acquire the ability to create new ideas and strive to    strategically and flexibly providing funding to private companies and universities, JAXA
improve our planning ability, research and
                                                         has taken steps to function as a key hub connecting industry, academia, and
development ability, project execution ability, and
                                                         government through the Space Strategy Fund as a new business field.
organizational management ability to realize these

                                                                                                                                                             Space Strategy Fund
                                                             Meanwhile, regarding the sustainability (social and environmental) aspect, we are
ideas.
                                                         making steady efforts to improve the work environment, including taking environmental
“Be proud of being involved in space                     considerations such as rationalizing energy use and improving work-life balance.
and aeronautics”
                                                                                                                                                             Projects
                                                         Based on the basic action policy on SDGs, the entire organization is working to
We will take on challenges for space and                 promote SDGs.
aeronautics and act sincerely with responsibility            Japan is one of the few countries in the world that can conduct autonomous and
and pride to contribute to society. We also value        wide-ranging space activities. In fiscal year 2024, JAXA, as the core implementing
small daily advances while maintaining a                 organization that technically supports the development and utilization of Japan's




                                                                                                                                                                   Third-Party Opinions
panoramic, long-term perspective.                        aerospace industry, will continue to unite its executives and employees to create
“Increase the number of our companions in                results toward the completion of the fourth fiscal year, and will strive to give back to
the space and aeronautic field”                          society while considering the environment.
We will spread the wisdom and results obtained                                                                                     September 2024
through the activities of space and aeronautics
throughout society and, in cooperation with other
activities, contribute to the lives, economy, and
safety of people, as well as to the resolution of                                    President            Hiroshi Yamakawa                             Review Results /
international issues.
                                                                                                                                                       Information about

                                                                                                                                                       organization
Overview of Phase 4 Medium/Long-Term
Plan Based on Medium/Long- Term Goals
                                                                                                                                                                    Top Management Commitment
                                                                                                                                                Details




                                                                                                                                                                          Top Management
                                                                                                                                                          Details




                                                                                                                                                                          Commitment
   We, JAXA, effectively and efficiently engage in our work to maximize the fruits of R&D in Japan, while reforming our
management system and mindset of executives and employees, at the same time emphasizing our public nature,
transparency and autonomy as a national research and development agency. Based on the Basic Plan on Space Policy,
etc., the competent minister instructs JAXA on the Medium/Long-Term Goals for the next seven years, which specifies the                                             Summary of Phase 4
goals for business operations and business efficiency improvement. We prepare a Medium/Long-Term Plan and an Annual
Plan based on the Medium/Long-Term Goals to steadily proceed with operations and achieve goals.                                                                     Medium/Long-Term

   We prepared a Medium/Long-Term Plan for the seven years from April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2025. Based on the Basic
Plan on Space Policy and R&D Plan in the aeronautics field, we will reliably implement projects and promote fundamental                                             Plan

R&D. In addition, we will strengthen cooperation with industry, academia, and government, keeping an eye on the



                                                                                                                                                                                Highlights of 2023
accelerating progress of advanced technologies and will focus on giving back the achievements to the public. Thus, we aim
to create outcomes in line with the following five action policies outlined in the Medium/Long-Term Goals.




                                           Priorities for Phase 4 Medium/Long-Term Goals

                                                                                                                                                                          Management Reform
     (1) Ensuring space security
      Technical support for government studies on functional assurance of the entire space system in cooperation with security organizations

                                                                                                                                                                          Review Committee
      R&D to meet the needs of space utilization in the security field, such as space debris
      Advanced R&D to improve technologies to support Japan’s positioning system, and continuous R&D for optical satellite communication
       technologies, etc.
      Continuous operation of core launch vehicles and development of H3 and Epsilon S Launch Vehicles to secure and improve independent
       space transportation capabilities
      Demonstration of world-leading technologies to remove space debris at low cost in cooperation with private companies, and contribution to                    JAXA
       early establishment of international rules

     (2) Realization of national land resilience, solutions for global issues, and innovation                                                                       Introduction of JAXA
      R&D on improving the frequency, accuracy, and speed of satellite observation in cooperation with disaster prevention organizations, aiming
       at the widespread use of satellite data as decision-making information for disaster countermeasures                                                          Projects
      Promoting utilization of satellite data for national land management and oceanographic observation, including application to maintenance and
       management of aging infrastructure
      Providing satellite data and promoting international cooperation to promote the use of satellite data as an indicator for decision-making and
       evaluation of actions on climate change                                                                                                                            Involvement in the
      Advanced R&D on earth observation satellites and upgrading of core technologies for satellites to provide satellite data continuously and
       stably and promote its utilization
                                                                                                                                                                          Environment
      Efficient processing of satellite data and creating new businesses through multidisciplinary utilization of satellite data in collaboration with
       private companies that have strength in advanced technologies in different fields such as AI
      Business planning and technology development/demonstration through partnerships with private companies to create businesses utilizing
       space with new ideas by the private sector. Strengthening the human resource base through personnel interchange with external parties




                                                                                                                                                                                Social Involvement
     (3) Creation of new wisdom and industry through space science and exploration
      Strengthening cooperation with research institutions, etc., in Japan and overseas. Formulating and implementing long-term, strategic
       scenarios with the aim of creating world-class research achievements, as well as promoting efficient and effective space exploration, etc.,
       with programming
      Strategic development of technologies that can contribute to Japan’s superiority in international space exploration and/or that have a
       significant ripple effect on other fields
      Promoting the creation of new wisdom and international contributions through the utilization of the space environment in low-Earth orbit
       activities including the International Space Station (ISS)
      Utilizing the ISS as a technical demonstration site for international space exploration and promoting open innovation and other systems for

                                                                                                                                                                          Initiatives to Achieve
       collaboration with private companies and universities, including those in non-aerospace industries
      Realizing a wide range of uses for the Japanese Experiment Module “Kibo,” and launching self-sustaining businesses by private companies,
       etc. Promoting the participation of private companies in international space exploration

                                                                                                                                                                          SDGs
     (4) Strengthening the overall infrastructure to support space activities
      R&D with private companies that commit to commercialization aiming to increase market share
      Innovative R&D for future business creation, such as flight demonstration using technologies for the reuse of space transportation systems
      R&D on advanced and innovative technologies related to future satellites, such as optical and digital technologies for low-cost, high-capacity,

                                                                                                                                                                          Space Strategy Fund
       high-speed satellite communication networks, and high-precision large optical sensor technologies
      Personnel interchange with private companies to strengthen the human resources base of the aerospace industry, and incorporation of
       diverse human resources into the aerospace field to enhance the functions of JAXA
      Support for government’s investigations on the ISS as well as low-Earth orbit activities and manned space activities in international space

                                                                                                                                                                          Projects
       exploration after the ISS project
      Developing the open innovation system to promote entry of different industries and venture businesses and to expand opportunities for R&D
       and demonstration of technologies useful for business. Promoting activities related to intellectual properties
      Establishing a fund through a subsidy from the government based on Article 21, Paragraph 1 of the Act on the Japan Aerospace Exploration
       Agency, and strengthening strategic and flexible funding functions for private companies and universities, based on the space technology




                                                                                                                                                                                Third-Party Opinions
       strategy formulated and rolled out under the Basic Plan on Space Policy

     (5) Enhancing the aeronautics industry and strengthening its international competitiveness
      Putting priority on R&D to improve environmental compatibility, economic efficiency, and safety of aircraft in cooperation with the private
       sector, etc., such as technology development for international joint development of next-generation engines
      Advanced R&D on noise reduction for supersonic aircraft to contribute to improvement of the international competitiveness of Japan’s
       aeronautics technologies and establishment of international standards

                                                                                                                                                                    Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                    Information about

                                                                                                                                                                    organization
  Overview of Phase 4 Medium/Long-Term
  Plan Based on Medium/Long- Term Goals

  Major Projects under the Phase 4 Medium/Long-Term Plan (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2025)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Top Management



JAXA’s Core Businesses                               FY2018                                             FY2019                                  FY2020                                      FY2021                                        FY2022                                      FY2023                                              FY2024                        Commitment



 Launch Vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Summary of Phase 4
                                          No.          No.           No.      No.                         No.              No.            No.         No.          No.                       No.       No.       No.                      No.       No.        No.                      No.       No.         No.           No.
                                          39            7            40        4                           8               41             9           42           43                        44         5        45                         6       46           1                       47       48             2           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To be launched
  H-IIA Launch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Medium/Long-Term
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in FY2024 (and
  Vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        beyond)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Plan
  H-IIB Launch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H-IIA Launch Vehicle
  Vehicle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Epsilon S Launch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vehicle
  Epsilon Launch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H3 Launch Vehicle




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Highlights of 2023
  Vehicle

  H3 Launch
  Vehicle                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *failure             *failure


                                                                                                                                           Global Change Observation Mission -Water “Shizuku” (GCOM-  Global Precipitation Measurement/Dual-frequency Precipitation Radar
  Artificial satellite              Satellites that were launched
                                   prior to the Phase 4 Medium- to
                                                                        Greenhouse Gases Observing SATellite “Ibuki” (GOSAT)
                                                                         (since 2009)                                                       W) (since 2012)                                             (GPM/DPR) (since 2013)
  (For earth observation,          Long-Term Plan and remain in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To be launched in FY2024
                                                                        Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2 “Daichi-2” (ALOS-2)           Global Change Observation Mission -Climate “Shikisai”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (and beyond)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Management Reform
  communication and positioning)               operation
                                                                         (since 2014)                                                       (GCOM-C) (since 2017)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Global Observing SATellite for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Greenhouse gases and Water cycle
                                                                                Greenhouse      Gases    Observing SATellite-2 “Ibuki-2”                                                                                                                                                       In operation                   (GOSAT-GW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Advanced Satellite Navigation System
                                                                                (GOSAT-2)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (ASNAV)

                                                                                                                                                                     Laser Utilizing Communication                                                                                             In operation
                                                                                                                                                                     System (LUCAS)
  Launching
  artificial satellites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Advanced Land                                                    Advanced Land                  JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Observing Satellite-3                                            Observing Satellite-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     “Daichi-3” (ALOS-3)                                              “Daichi-4” (ALOS-4)            Introduction of JAXA

  Manned space                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Projects
  activities

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To be launched in FY2024
  Operation of Japanese                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (and beyond)
                                                   March 2008 - Present: Japanese Experiment                                                                                                                                                                                                      In operation
  Experiment Module “Kibo”                         Module/International Space Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        New Unmanned Cargo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Environment
                                                                              Astronaut Norishige                                                                    Astronaut Soichi              Astronaut Akihiko                            Astronaut Koichi                                                              Transfer Spacecraft (HTV-X)
  Long-term stay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Astronaut Satoshi
  on the ISS                                                                  Kanai (stayed 166 days)                                                                Noguchi                       Hoshide                                      Wakata                                        Furukawa
                                                                                                                                                                     (stayed 165 days)             (stayed 198 days)                            (stayed 157 days)                             (stayed 197 days)
  Operation of the Unmanned
  Cargo Transfer Spacecraft                                   No. 7                                                No. 8                        No. 9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Social Involvement
  “Kounotori”                                                 spacecraft                                           spacecraft                   spacecraft
                                                              (HTV7)                                               (HTV8)                       (HTV9)



  Space science and                 Satellites that were launched
                                   prior to the Phase 4 Medium- to
                                                                        Solar Physics Satellite “Hinode” (SOLAR-B)            Venus Climate Orbiter “Akatsuki” (PLANET-C)
                                   Long-Term Plan and remain in
  exploration                                  operation                (since 2006)                                            (since 2010)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                                    Exploration of energization and
                                                                                    Radiation in Geospace “Arase” (ERG)                                                                                                                                                                                   X-Ray Imaging and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Spectroscopy Mission                       In operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (XRISM)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SDGs
  Satellite and spacecraft                                                                                                                                                                                                  Asteroid Explorer                                                                    Extended mission is ongoing
  launches                                                                                                                                                                                                                  “Hayabusa2”
                                                                      Mercury Magnetospheric Orbiter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In operation
                                                                      “MIO” (MMO)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Smart Lander for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Investigating Moon (SLIM)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Projects
  Aviation Technology




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                            FQUROH (Flight Demonstration of Quiet
                                                                                                            Technology to Reduce Noise from High-lift
  Research and                                                                                              Configurations)
  Development of
                                                                                                         En-Core (Environmentally                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In operation
  Aviation Technology
                                                                                                         Compatible Core Engine
                                                                                                         Technology Research)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     organization
    Highlights of 2023


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Commitment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Details                                             Details                                                                       Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Details                                              Details                                                                              Details

                                                                                                                              Details                    Details

                                                                                                                                                                                        Strengthening the overall infrastructure to support Japan’s space activities, including the foundations of
           Ensuring space security                                                                                                      Details                    Details
                                                                                                                                                                                        industrial, scientific, and technological infrastructure
   We enhanced collaboration with national security-related organizations, conducted research on                                                                                 In the field of transportation, we collaboratively investigated the causes of the failures in                                                                                                                                                                                                Summary of Phase 4
space debris and the use of satellites for ocean monitoring, advanced research and development in                                                                            launching Epsilon Rocket No. 6 and the first H3 rocket test vehicle, implemented
optical inter-satellite communication technology, provided technical support for government studies                                                                          countermeasures, and enhanced preventive maintenance measures at the launch sites. As a                                                                                                                                                                                                          Medium/Long-Term
on ensuring the functionality of the entire space system, and undertook government-commissioned                                                                              result, we successfully launched all missions of No. 47 and No. 48 H-IIA launch vehicles and
projects involving information-gathering satellites and space situational awareness satellites. In                                                                           the second H3 rocket test vehicle. We will persist in steadily advancing the development of the                                                                                                                                                                                                  Plan
addition, we operated the Space Situational Awareness (SSA) system in partnership with the                                                                                   Epsilon S launch vehicle to ensure its high reliability.
Ministry of Defense to support the sustainable and stable use of space for both Japanese national                                                                                In the JAXA Space Innovation through Partnership and Co-creation (J-SPARC), a co-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Highlights of 2023
security and civilian applications.                                                                                                                                          creation type R&D program, we have initiated two new related private sector projects. Through
   Regarding positioning satellites, we have made steady progress in developing a high-precision                                                                             J-SPARC, we attracted self-investment from partners, drew in new investments and
positioning system as planned. In collaboration with the Geospatial Information Authority of Japan                                                                           collaborations from external sources, encouraged the entry of large corporations from sectors
and utilizing the MADOCA*1 system, we have begun regularly providing precise ephemeris data for                                                                              beyond space, and motivated some private companies to actively expand their operations
the international GNSS*2 project. Due to the system’s high level of accuracy, the international           Illustration of Space Situation Awareness (SSA)                    overseas.                                                                                                                                 Launch of the second H3 rocket
GNSS project certified JAXA as Japan’s first “Analysis Center” for the initiative. This achievement                                                                              In February 2024, the flight demonstration of the non-explosive low-impact separation                                                 test vehicle
enables Japan to stably maintain and manage its positional reference system independently,                *1   Multi-GNSS Advanced Demonstration tool for Orbit and Clock
                                                                                                                                                                             mechanism for small satellites, known as Simple Payload Attach Fitting (Simple PAF), was
                                                                                                               Analysis
without reliance on overseas organizations.                                                               *2   Global Navigation Satellite System                            successfully conducted using the second H3 rocket test vehicle. Furthermore, we achieved

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Management Reform
                                                                                                                                                                             social implementation through the commercialization of Simple PAF by private companies and                                                          SAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    image rocessing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Observation
                                                                                                                                                                             its sale to commercial rocket operators.
           Realization of national land resilience, solutions for global issues, and                                                                     Details




                                                                                                                                                                   Details       Additionally, we have domestically developed a new FPGA (NB-FPGA) that incorporates a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Review Committee
           innovation                                                                                                                                                        novel radiation-resistant technology conceived by JAXA and a domestic new semiconductor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Future-generation SAR
                                                                                                                                                                             technology known as atomic switch (nano-bridge) technology. This new FPGA combines high                                                          satellite
    Launched in 2018, “Ibuki-2 (GOSAT-2)” has been collecting high-precision observation data over         CO2
                                                                                                           concentra                                                         radiation resistance with ultra-low power consumption characteristics. This FPGA has attracted
five years of steady operation. Ibuki-2 and its predecessor, “Ibuki (GOSAT),” launched in 2009, have       tion                                                              interest from small satellite applications and automotive semiconductor manufacturers.
continued to observe the Earth on a global scale for over a decade. One significant achievement of
                                                                                                                                                                             Furthermore, a proposal that combines the next-generation MPU (SOI-SOC MPU), which is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JAXA
these missions includes the international recognition of the effectiveness of observing greenhouse
                                                                                                                                                                             currently under development by JAXA, with the NB-FPGA has been adopted by the Cabinet
gases (carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) from space. The observation data provide objective                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Images from vessels and characteristics, and ground
                                                                                                                                                                             Office’s Stardust Program, paving the way for the creation of new technologies.                                                                surface displacement

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Introduction of JAXA
evidence of the rising concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere and fluctuations                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Extraction and rapid transmission of user
                                                                                                                                                                                 JAXA has successfully demonstrated an onboard processing technology for Earth                                                              interest information
in their growth rates, contributing to the estimation of greenhouse gas emissions by various countries.                                   “Ibuki”
                                                                                                                                                    Analyzed by              observation data, known as FLIP, which significantly reduces the time required to obtain SAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Projects
Additionally, the Global Satellite Mapping of Precipitation (GSMaP) data has been utilized by                                                       JAXA/EORC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Illustration of use of Synthetic Aperture Radar
                                                                                                           CO2
                                                                                                                                                                             observation images on the ground. This technology is realized through high-speed imaging and
meteorological and hydrological agencies in the Asia-Pacific region. For the first time, it has been                                                                                                                                                                                                        (SAR) data
                                                                                                           concentra                                                         image compression of SAR observation data in orbit, thereby reducing the amount of data
used in the cockpit of commercial aircraft, contributing to safe operations and reducing the burden on     tion
                                                                                                                                                                             downlinked to the ground by approximately 1/1000. Plans for future deployment to private
pilots.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                             companies are underway.                                                                                                                                                                                               Visible light

    In disaster prevention and response, “Daichi-2 (ALOS-2)” continuously observed the Noto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cameras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (One camera at the
                                                                                                                                                                                 At the Space Exploration Innovation Hub Center, JAXA and partner private companies                 (Before deployed)                                                   (After deployed)                       front and one at the
Peninsula after the earthquake that occurred on January 1, 2024. The satellite’s observations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Deployment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rear)

                                                                                                                                                                             collaboratively developed the world’s smallest and lightest lunar exploration robot, LEV-2
contributed to assessing the conditions of ports and roads, supporting recovery efforts in the area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Environment
                                                                                                                                                                             (SORA-Q), which, together with LEV-1, became Japan’s first lunar exploration robots. LEV-1                                                                                                                                                                                          Stabilizer
Additionally, “Daichi-2” and “Shikisai (GCOM-C)” provided observation data on the increased ground                                      “Ibuki-2”
                                                                                                                                                    Analyzed by              and LEV-2 were deployed to the lunar surface just before the landing of the Smart Lander for
activity at Nishinoshima Island and Iwo-to Island, contributing to the Japan Coast Guard’s decision-                                                JAXA/EORC


                                                                                                          Global carbon dioxide concentration observed by Ibuki
                                                                                                                                                                             Investigating Moon (SLIM). After landing, LEV-2 successfully powered on autonomously and                                                                                    Wheels

making for conducting aerial observations of volcanic activity in these maritime areas.
                                                                                                          and Ibuki-2 (September 2019)                                       captured images of SLIM using its onboard cameras.
                                                                                                                                                                                 As part of the Innovative Satellite Technology Demonstration Research and Development                                 Overview of the transformable lunar surface robot




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                             Program, we have completed the detailed design of the RApid Innovative payload                                                                  LEV-2
                                                                                                                                                                             demonstration SatellitE-4 (RAISE-4). RAISE-4 includes a re-challenge demonstration theme for                              ©JAXA/TOMY Company/Sony Group/Doshisha University
           Creation of new wisdom and industry through space science and                                                  Details




                                                                                                                                        Details
                                                                                                                                                    Details




                                                                                                                                                                   Details
           exploration                                                                                                                                                       the small demonstration satellite RAISE-3, which was lost due to the failure of the No. 6 Epsilon
                                                                                                                                                                             launch vehicle.
    Our Smart Lander for Investigating Moon (SLIM) successfully achieved a pinpoint landing on
the Moon, demonstrating precision control that far surpassed our target of less than 100 meters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Details




accuracy, marking a world first. Additionally, our X-Ray Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission                                                                                               Enhancing the aeronautics industry and strengthening its international competitiveness                                                                                                                                                 Details
(XRISM) Satellite has released its first light (initial observation image), demonstrating the world’s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Initiatives to Achieve
highest X-ray spectroscopy capabilities. Furthermore, the Asteroid Explorer “Hayabusa2” has                                                                                      In the field of aviation, we are working to strengthen industrial competitiveness, address
brought multiple world-class results, including a paper published in “Science” that demonstrates                                                                             economic and social challenges, and create a people and environment-friendly sustainable
the presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) formed in interstellar molecular clouds                                                                              aviation society, based on the “Research and Development Vision for the Aviation Science


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SDGs
within the Ryugu parent body, based on the samples returned from asteroid Ryugu.                                                                                             and Technology Sector.” Our efforts focus on three main areas: (1) research and                                                                                              Prediction of system
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             performance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Compreh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           en
    In lunar exploration, Japan’s manned pressurized rover, developed for the United States-led                                                                              development necessary for advancing air transport and aircraft utilization within existing                                                        AI design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             si v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     dig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ita                             Digital test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
“Artemis Program,” has been recognized as a key component of the Moon to Mars Architecture. In                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tin   al flight
                                                                                                                                                                             frameworks; (2) research and development to expand airspace use through next-generation                                                                                                                                           d


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tes Digit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Recycling of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   waste
collaboration with NASA and other partners, Japan is enhancing its international presence and                                                                                mobility systems; and (3) development of foundational technologies that support the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     al
                                                                                                                                                                             sustainable growth of the aviation industry. Among these achievements, the En-Core Project’s                                                                                                                                         git
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Di esign
promoting global cooperation in space exploration.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Space Strategy Fund
    JAXA has begun expanding the Noshiro Rocket Testing Center. This expansion aims to actively           A photograph of the SLIM landing on the Moon surface,              high-temperature, high-efficiency turbine in category (1) has demonstrated exceptional
support industrial development and societal benefits by providing a field for establishing safety         taken and transmitted by the transformable lunar surface           durability and set a new world record for efficiency. We have also developed the world’s first                      Digital twin                                             Digital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          thread
standards in hydrogen management technology, thus advancing efforts toward realizing a                    robot (LEV-2) “SORA-Q”                                             aircraft-mounted detection LiDAR, which, through demonstration testing, has established the                                             Operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                            Authentication



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Projects
“hydrogen society.” Another initiative includes collaborative research and development of diamond                                                                            capability to detect volcanic ash and ice crystals—an essential technology for mitigating                                              maintenance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Numerical simulation
semiconductor devices for space applications, conducted in partnership with Saga University and                                                                              weather-related impacts on aviation.
the National Institute of Technology, Kure College. This project has been selected for the Cabinet                                                                               In foundational technology for the sustainable development of the aviation industry, we                                                                               Production
Office’s Stardust Program.                                                                                                                                                   have pioneered the world’s first method for measuring galvanic corrosion between metal and
    Japanese Experiment Module “Kibo” on the ISS has yielded numerous achievements, including




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                                             CFRP, contributing to the standardization of testing methods. In response to societal needs                                                                             Digital prototyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Production simulation                                                                    Flight simulator
contributions to pharmaceutical research and development. Satoshi Furukawa became the first                                                                                  for our wind tunnel testing facility, we have developed a world-class high-precision balance.
Japanese astronaut to board the Crew Dragon for four consecutive years, where he conducted                                                                                   Additionally, we have implemented automated control technologies and anomaly detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Digitalization of the aircraft life cycle
experiments aimed at developing elemental technologies for human organ creation, contributing to                                                                             systems utilizing digital twin technology to enhance the smart capabilities of the testing facility.
regenerative medicine. He also actively engaged in outreach and educational activities to enhance                                                                                We have made proposals to Key and Advanced Technology R&D through Cross
public understanding.                                                                                                                                                        Community Collaboration Program, resulting in the acquisition of six large external funding
                                                                                                          Astronaut Satoshi Furukawa and other SpaceX Crew-7                 sources.
                                                                                                          crew members checking that their spacesuits fit their
                                                                                                          bodies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Review Results /
                                                                                                          ©JAXA/NASA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              organization
Highlights of 2023


Management Reform Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Top Management
                                                                                                                               Details



                                                                                                                                         Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Commitment

                                                      Management Reform                                                                                                                                                                 Overview of Discussions in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Management Reform Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Summary of Phase 4
                                                                                                                                                   Article

               Maximizing the Value of People                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                   Management challenges across JAXA                                              Common factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Insufficient human resource development that matches
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Background factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Delay in the expansion of the personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Medium/Long-Term

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                budget                                                   Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                   1. Challenges in management/governance                                             roles and projects


                and Making the Organization                                                                                                                                        2. Challenges related to human resources
                                                                                                                                                                                   3. Challenges related to organizational structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A Increase and diversification of programs and roles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B Reduction in human resource development activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        due to lack of available capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Addressing issues through symptomatic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                personnel reinforcement




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Highlights of 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                   4. Challenges related to technical capabilities                                                                                             Reduction in mid- to long-term

                   Evolve Even Stronger                                                                                                                                            5. Challenges related to the industrial foundation of
                                                                                                                                                                                      aerospace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C Difficulty of maintaining and passing on technical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        capabilities in close collaboration with the industrial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sector
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                investment in human resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                development due to misguided efficiency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                measures


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Addressing management challenges in research and development
                                                                                                                                                                               Awareness of responsibility within the project promotion organization, management of core rocket development, integration of satellite into
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      newly developed rockets, and the internal control environment

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Management Reform
   JAXA has investigated the causes of the failure to                     ‘management/governance,’            ‘human          resources,’
launch the first H3 rocket test vehicle and Epsilon Rocket                ‘organization,’ ‘technology,’ and ‘industrial infrastructure for


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Addressing
No. 6, as well as the case of non-compliance with the                     aerospace’ is that ‘top management has not strengthened                  Article

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Review Committee
ethical guidelines for medical research, which have                       human resources in line with the expansion of roles and                     4                                    Positive organizational culture Persevering to achieve goals and taking on the challenge of the unknown
occurred by FY2022, and has taken measures to prevent                     projects.’
recurrence.                                                                  Through discussions within the Management Reform                                                                                                              Excessive top-down management, a culture where a person who proposes an idea must take
                                                                                                                                                                               Negative organizational culture responsibility for its implementation, and recognition is only given to those who initiate it.
   On September 28, 2023, JAXA established the                            Review Committee, JAXA compiled an action plan for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JAXA


                                                                                                                                                    Introspection leading to
“Management Reform Review Committee,” with the aim of                     future measures, proposals from the front line, and                                                                                                                                                                                                     Inability to take the first step toward
                                                                                                                                                                                            Excessive top-down management on-                                Failures in ensuring psychological
sincerely reflecting on these recurring problems and                      countermeasures to challenges, which were reported at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Introduction of JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  improvement, lack of empathy
                                                                                                                                                                                            site as a result of pursuing success, lack                       safety, delays in business
evolving into a stronger organization, driving organization-              the    86th     Space     Development        and      Utilization                                                                                                                                                                                       towards supervisors, other




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  General staff
                                                                                                                                                                                            of updates to the management                                     improvement and human resource
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  departments, and private companies,



                                                                                                                                                                               Directors                                                          Managers
                                                                                                                                                                                            philosophy, and insufficient opportunities                       development, and lack of learning in
wide reform under the leadership of the President, and                    Subcommittee meeting held on April 23, 2024.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and insufficient commitment to
                                                                                                                                                                                            for communication among directors                                line with the times
clearly identifying challenges within JAXA’s management                      Looking toward a future in which Japan’s space                                                                                                                                                                                                       continuous learning




                                                                                                                                                      a shift in awareness
and internal controls, and considering improvement                        development and the space industry continue to evolve,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Involvement in the
measures that include a shift in organizational mindset.                  JAXA is committed to steadily fulfilling its increasingly                                                                                                                                                                                               Innovations in business improvement,
                                                                                                                                                                                            Realizing organizational management that                         Securing psychological safety,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  empathy towards others, and the
   With three mission statements—‘We will sincerely                       diverse roles, striving for the sustainable development of                                                        values people, and reinforcing human                             streamlining operations, and reevaluating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  initiative to drive organizational
                                                                                                                                                                                            resources from a long-term perspective                           human resource development initiatives
engage in self-reflection based on critical feedback from                 both people and organizations, and continuously evolving                                                                                                                                                                                                transformation from the front line

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Environment
the external evaluation,’ ‘We will actively explore                       to realize organizational management suited to the new
constructive discussions in order to evolve into a stronger               era. We hope that the citizens of Japan will continue to
organization,’ and ‘We will make this activity a catalyst for             watch over JAXA’s progress in the future.
changing our mindset by fostering open discussions to the                                                                                          Article                             Measures for maximizing the value of people and making the organization evolve even stronger



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                      5                                                          (Action plan with a total of 41 measures)
greatest extent possible’—discussions were held for
approximately six months within the committee and
subcommittees, as well as through JAXA’s internal SNS
and town hall meetings for Agency-wide communication.
These discussions led to our recognition that the common
factor      in      the     challenges       related       to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                                                                                                   Discussions at the town hall meeting




                       Key points of discussions in the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SDGs

                       Management Reform Review Committee

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Space Strategy Fund
        The management challenges have been categorized into the following groups: “management/governance,” “human
         resources,” “organization,” “technology,” and “industrial infrastructure for aerospace.” It was recognized that the common
         underlying factor in these challenges is that top management has not strengthened human resources in line with the
         expansion of roles and projects.
        Forty-one action plans have been created, including the establishment of the Human Resource and Organizational                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Projects
         Development Steering Committee (chaired by the Senior Vice President), which quickly addresses organization-wide
         challenges by incorporating the concept of human capital management and aligning business strategy with talent
         strategy.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Third-Party Opinions
        In response to the competent minister’s evaluation, which identified research and development management challenges,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tsukuba Space Center                                                                                             Chofu Aerospace Center
         we analyzed challenges around “Awareness of responsibility within the project promotion organization,” “management of
         core rocket development,” “integration of satellites into newly developed rockets” and “internal control environment,” and
         reflected these in the action plans.
        Through dialogue and analysis of organizational culture and mindset, directors, managers, and frontline employees will
         each engage in self-reflection and work to transform their mindsets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         organization
                                              Introduction of JAXA projects under development                                                                                                 Introduction of JAXA projects under development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Commitment




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Summary of Phase 4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Medium/Long-Term


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Plan
                                                                 Transportation and Aviation                                                                                                                   Manned space exploration/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lunar exploration


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Highlights of 2023

                                                                                        Epsilon S Launch Vehicle                                                                                                                                Technical verification of
                                                                                        It is a solid fuel rocket aimed at                                                                                                                      automated docking

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Management Reform
                                                                                        realizing an era where everyone can                                                                                                                     This is an automated docking
                                                                                        use space. We aim to strengthen our                                                                                                                     technology necessary for international
                                                                                        international competitiveness and to                                                                                                                    space exploration missions and free
                                                                                        enter the launch market in earnest.                                                                                                                     space activities. To obtain this, we will

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                conduct      on-orbit   demonstrations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                utilizing HTV-X.
                                                                                          Details



                                                                                                    Details                                                                                                                                                Details



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Details


                                                           We will develop engines                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JAXA
                                                           with low emissions of
                                                           nitrogen    oxides    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Introduction of
                                                           carbon      dioxide    by
                                                           addressing       technical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JAXA Projects
                                                           issues in combustors and
                                                           turbines.
This is a project aimed at acquiring the core
engine technology for environmentally                                                                                                                         HTV-X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Involvement in the
conscious aircrafts. We are working with
domestic manufacturers to strengthen our
                                                                                                                                                              This is a next-generation unmanned                                                                                           LUPEX
                                                                                                                                                              cargo transfer spacecraft that inherits
international competitiveness in the aircraft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              This is an exploration mission to
                                                                                                                                                              “Kounotori,” which resupplied the
engine industry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           confirm the abundance and availability
                                                                                                                                                              International Space Station (ISS). In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of water as a resource in the lunar
                                                                                                                                                              addition to supplying the ISS, it is also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           polar region. This will be implemented
   Details
                                                                                                                                                              used      for    on-orbit    technology
             Details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       through international cooperation with
                                                                                                                                                              demonstrations and experiments.
                                                                                                                     H3 Launch Vehicle                                                                                                                                                     India, etc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Social Involvement
                                                                                                                     A next-generation, large-scale core         Details



                                                                                                                                                                           Details
                                                                                                                     launch vehicle that integrates Japan’s
                                                                                                                     cutting-edge    technology.    As   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Details



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Details
                                                                                                                     September 2024, three vehicles have
                                                                                                                     been      launched.    We     continue
                                                                                                                     development with the aim of creating a
                                                                                                                     world-leading, user-friendly launch
                                                                                                                     vehicle.                                                                                                             LUPEX rover



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                                                                        Details



                                                                                                                                  Details
                CALLISTO is a flight experiment aimed
                at reusing the first stage of rockets,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SDGs
                which is one of the measures to
                effectively reduce transportation costs
                to space. In cooperation with the
                French and German Space Agencies,                                                                                                                                                         Gateway (manned base on lunar       Gateway’s habitation module
                we will develop small reusable                                                                                                                                                            orbits)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ©NASA                               This is a transit station for the lunar surface and Mars
                experimental aircraft and conduct flight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              that is being studied by the space agencies of
                experiments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              respective countries participating in the International
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Space Station. JAXA envisions residential functions in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Projects
                       Details



                                 Details                                                                                                                                                                                                      the Mini Habitation Modules HALO and International
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Habitation Modules I-HAB, as well as contributions to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              supplying.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Details



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Review Results /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               International Space Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ©JAXA/NASA                                           Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    organization
                                  Introduction of JAXA projects under development                                                                                                            Introduction of JAXA projects under development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Commitment




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Summary of Phase 4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Medium/Long-Term


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Plan
                                                       Earth observation, communication                                                                                                                   Solar System and Astronomy
                                                                and positioning


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Highlights of 2023


                                                                                                                                                               This is Martian Moons eXploration (MMX)
                                                                                                                                                               that explores the origins of two Martian
                                                                                                                                                               moons and the evolution process of the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Management Reform
                                                                                                                                                               Martian sphere. We aim to observe both
                                                                                                                                  Successor of First
                                                                                                                                  Michibiki                    satellites and confirm the presence of
                                                                                                                                  Source: qzss.go.jp           water and organic matter by returning
                                                                                                                                                               samples from Phobos.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Review Committee

                                                                                                                                                                  Details



                                                                                                                                                                            Details

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JAXA

                               A satellite that observes changes in
                                                                                                       Aiming to improve the performance of Units 5,                                                                                                                                Introduction of
                                                                                                       6, and 7 of the “Quasi-Zenith Satellite System
                               the water cycle and greenhouse
                                                                                                       Michibiki,” which is maintained and operated by                                                                                                                              JAXA Projects
                               gases. We observe sea surface                                                                                                                                                                           This is a flyby probe for the active
                                                                                                       the Cabinet Office, we will develop and
                               temperature,     water   vapor,  soil                                                                                                                                                                   asteroid Phaethon, the parent celestial
                                                                                                       demonstrate a high-precision positioning
                               moisture, ice and snow, and observe                                                                                                                                                                     body of the Geminis. It aims to unravel
                                                                                                       system with additional satellite-to-satellite and
                               greenhouse gases such as CO2, CH4,                                                                                                                                                                      the mystery of Phaethon and acquire
                                                                                                       satellite-to-ground ranging functions. This

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Involvement in the
                               and NO2.                                                                                                                                                                                                high-speed flyby exploration technologies.
                                                                                                       greatly improves the accuracy of positioning
                                                                                                       signals delivered to users and contributes to the
                                                                                                       realization of a seven-satellite system.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Environment
                                   Details



                                             Details
                                                                                                                                           Details



                                                                                                                                                     Details                                                                              Details



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Social Involvement




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Initiatives to Achieve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SDGs
                                                                                                                                                               A satellite that conducts precise
                                                                                                                                                               spectroscopic       observations     of
                                                                                                                                                               ultraviolet rays from the Sun using the
                                                                                     An engineering test satellite aimed at
                                                                                                                                                               most      sensitive   telescope    ever
                                                                                     enhancing competitiveness in the
                                                                                                                                                               developed. It aims to uncover the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                     communications satellite market. We
                                                                                                                                                               mechanisms behind high-temperature
                                                                                     will demonstrate the communication
                                                                                                                                                               plasma generation in the Sun and its
                                                                                     technology and the satellite bus
A project to measure global rainfall and                                                                                                                       effects on Earth and other planets. In
                                                                                     technology to meet needs.
                                                                                                                                                               this mission, Japan is leading the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Projects
snowfall using a precipitation radar satellite.
A project to measure global rainfall and                                                                                                                       development, with the cooperation of
snowfall using a precipitation radar satellite.                                           Details
                                                                                                                                                               the United States and European
By      leveraging    Japan’s      advanced                                                         Details
                                                                                                                                                               countries.
observational technology and collaborating
with the countries including U.S., Canada,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Third-Party Opinions
and France, this project contributes to
                                                                                                                                                                  Details


addressing global climate challenges and                                                                                                                                    Details
water-related disaster prevention, including
mitigating the societal impacts of such
disasters.
    Details



              Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    organization
                                                         Top Management Commitment




                                                               Top Management



                                                               Commitment




                                                         Summary of Phase 4


                                                         Medium/Long-Term


                                                         Plan




                                                                     Highlights of 2023




                                                               Management Reform




                                                               Review Committee




                                                         JAXA


                                                         Introduction of JAXA


                                                         Projects




                                                               Involvement in the



                                                               Environment




Involvement in the
                                                                     Social Involvement
   Environment

15   Initiatives to Preserve the Global Environment
                                                               Initiatives to Achieve
     15   Disaster Situation Assessment from Space


                                                               SDGs
     16   Three-dimensional Observation of Forests
          from Space for High-precision Topographic
          Data
     17   Streamlined Forest Management Administration

                                                               Space Strategy Fund
          with Earth Observation Satellites
     17   Pioneering the Megawatt Power Era with
          Jet Passenger Aircraft to Reduce CO2
          Emissions
18   Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load                  Projects


     18   Promotion of Green Management




                                                                     Third-Party Opinions
     19   Report on Environmentally Friendly
          Operation
     20   Environmental Performance Data

     22   Trends in the Primary Material Balance
     23   Initiatives to Create a Recycling-Oriented
          Society                                        Review Results /
     24   Main environment-friendly activities at
          business sites                                 Information about

                                                         organization
Involvement in
                                     Initiatives to Preserve the Global Environment
the Environment

Global Environmental Preservation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Commitment
                                                                                                                                                                   Details




Disaster Situation Assessment from Space                                                                                                                                               Details   Three-dimensional Observation of Forests from Space for High-precision Topographic Data
JAXA’s response to the 2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake                                                                     *Map and the image are from the Geospatial Information                 Demonstration of LiDAR on the ISS (MOLI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Summary of Phase 4
                                                                                                                                  Authority of Japan (GSI) Tile Pale Map © JAXA
  On January 1, 2024, at 16:10 Japan Standard Time, an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.6 (according to the Japan Meteorological                                                                   MOLI (Multi-sensing Observation Lidar and Imager demonstration), is Japan’s first laser-based forest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Medium/Long-Term
Agency, JMA) struck the Noto Peninsula. Our thoughts are with the people affected by the disaster, and we sincerely hope for their safety                                                        observation mission. It involves equipping the International Space Station (ISS) with a LiDAR device* to
and the earliest possible recovery. JAXA responded to requests from domestic disaster management agencies by conducting emergency                                                                conduct three-dimensional observations of forests across the entire globe. The development is
observations using the Advanced Land Observing Satellite “Daichi-2” (ALOS-2) and providing the data to the relevant organizations.                                                               progressing with the aim of contributing to climate change mitigation, biodiversity research, and                                                              Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                 improving the accuracy of digital elevation data.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Highlights of 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                 * LiDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) is a surveying method that measures the distance to a target by emitting laser light (ultraviolet, visible, or
Example of crust/ground deformation analysis results using “Daichi-2”                                                                                                                              near-infrared) and determining the time it takes for the light to return from the target.




                                         Suzu City                                                                                              Suzu City                                        Contribution to climate change mitigation
                                                                                                      Suzu City
                                                                                                                                                                                                    There is an ongoing global climate mitigation initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                 called “REDD+*,” which requires the monitoring of carbon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Management Reform
             Wajima City                Noto Town
                                                                             Wajima City           Noto Town                                                                                     accumulation in forests.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    LiDAR is capable of observing the three-dimensional

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                 structure of forests, specifically the reflectance intensity
                                        Epicenter
                                                                                                   Epicenter                                      Estimated building
                                                                                                                                                                                                 from each canopy layer. This allows not only the
                                        (according to JMA)                                 Nanao
                           Nanao                                                                   (according to JMA)                             damage                                         measurement of forest height but also the assessment of
                           Bay                                                             Bay                                                    (Approximately 500 m
                                        2.5D analysis of                                                                                          grid)                                          forest degradation based on carbon accumulation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JAXA
                                                                                                   2.5D analysis of                               Scale of damage
                                        near-vertical
                                                                                                   near-vertical                                                                                 Therefore, the results of the MOLI project are expected to
                                        displacement (m)                                                                                                Severe
                                              +5 (uplift)
                                                                                                   displacement (m)                                                                              serve as a means of verifying the average carbon storage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Introduction of JAXA
                                                                                                          +5 (Eastward)                                 Large
                                                                                                                                   Noto Town                                                     per unit area, which is required for the implementation of
                                                                                                                                                        Moderate
                                                                                                                                                                                                 REDD+.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Projects
 Ishikawa                                                        Ishikawa                                                                               Affected                                                                                                                                             Demonstration of LiDAR on the ISS (Illustration)
Prefecture                                    -5 (Subsidence)
                                                                Prefecture                                -5 (Westward)                                                                          * A framework that helps developing countries reduce greenhouse gas emissions
                                                                                                                                                                                                   from deforestation and forest degradation, conserve forests, manage them
                                                                                                                                                                                                   sustainably, and support carbon accumulation in forests.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Involvement in the
Figure 1: Vertical displacement                                 Figure 2: East-West directional displacement                    Figure 3: Damage to buildings

   By analyzing observational data from “Daichi-2” before and after the earthquake, crustal and ground displacement can be                                                                       Research on biodiversity
measured. In the analysis results shown in Figure 1, “uplift” is indicated in red and “subsidence” in blue. Areas with darker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Generally speaking, forests are considered the
colors represent greater displacement. In particular, the northwestern part of the Noto Peninsula shows significant                                                                              ecosystems with the highest biodiversity in a given area. To
displacement, with a maximum uplift of approximately 4 meters detected. Figure 2 shows another analysis result, where red                                                                        quantitatively and efficiently assess biodiversity over large
areas indicate “eastward” displacement and blue areas indicate “westward” displacement, revealing that the overall trend of                                                                      areas, research is progressing on the observation of
displacement is toward the west.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                 alternative biodiversity parameters (i.e. canopy height,
*Although the analysis results in Figures 1 and 2 represent vertical and east-west directional displacements (quasi-vertical/quasi-east-west), respectively, they differ                         forest structure, and plant biomass) at three levels:
slightly from the true vertical/east-west directions due to the characteristics of the observation directions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ecosystem, species, and genetic, using remote sensing
  Figure 3 shows estimated building damage, extracted through automated analysis of                                                                                                              technology from space.
“Daichi-2” satellite data before and after the earthquake. As the color changes from yellow to                                                                                                      If the quantitative indicators of biodiversity derived from
orange to purple to black, the estimated number of damaged buildings increases. JAXA is                                                                                                          LiDAR waveforms and multi-band image data obtained
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Demonstration of LiDAR on the ISS (Illustration)
developing technologies with the aim of providing such building damage data within two and a                                                                                                     from the MOLI project are proven to be usable over large

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Initiatives to Achieve
half hours after observation.                                                                                                                                                                    areas, equipping low Earth orbit satellites with LiDAR for
  The image on the right is an “RGB composite image” created by assigning colors to two                                                                                                          observation may provide valuable information for identifying
satellite images taken before and after the earthquake and overlaying them to extract areas of                                                                                                   global hotspots, including forests in urgent need of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SDGs
change. The red and blue areas represent locations where changes are estimated to have                                                                                                           protection, in the future.
occurred. The coastal areas are predominantly marked in blue. In the coastal areas affected
by the earthquake-induced uplift, extensive regions have become land, indicating a major
                                                                                                                                           Coastal areas in Wajima City
change in the coastline.                                                                                                                                                                         Contribution to DEM*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                                                                           and Minazuki Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                    By observing forest areas with a waveform recording
                                                                                                                                                                                                 LiDAR, MOLI is capable of acquiring not only tree data but
Expectations for “Daichi-4” (ALOS-4)
                                                                                                                                                                             Details




                                                                                                                                                                                       Details   also ground elevation information. This contributes to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                 obtaining Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data, which cannot
   Advanced Land Observing Satellite-4 (ALOS-4) “Daichi-4” is a world-class Earth observation satellite that achieves the                                                                        be acquired through the surface-level data from typical
highest level of resolution and coverage by integrating new technologies with the capabilities of “Daichi-2.” With an increased                                                                  observation satellites’ photogrammetry.
observation width of 200 km (up from 50 km on “Daichi-2”) and a resolution of 3 m, “Daichi-4” offers significantly broader



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Third-Party Opinions
observation coverage. “Daichi-4” is expected to cover a larger area with fewer observation passes, even during disaster                                                                          * Digital Elevation Model (DEM): A general term for the digital representation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                   the Earth’s surface that depicts terrain elevation in three dimensions.
events.
   Moreover, using optical data relay satellites allows us to communicate with “Daichi-4” over extended periods, enabling
timely responses to emergency observation requests during disasters and facilitating the transmission of more data to the
ground.
   By regularly observing the entire Earth, “Daichi-4” is expected to contribute not only to disaster monitoring but also to
various fields, including crustal movement, global environmental changes, and ocean studies.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                organization
 Involvement in
                              Initiatives to Preserve the Global Environment
the Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                            Top Management Commitment




Global Environmental Preservation                                                                                                                                                                 Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                  Commitment
Streamlined Forest Management Administration                                                                                                                       Details




                                                                                                                                                                             Details
with Earth Observation Satellites
JAXA, Ibaraki Prefecture, and the Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute
have published a handbook for “Forest logging detection and its administrative use”                                                                                                         Summary of Phase 4

   In forest management administration, local government staff are required to conduct on-site logging inspections,
                                                                                                                                                                                            Medium/Long-Term
which can be burdensome. In recent years, several prefectures have been adopting an administrative system referred
to as the ‘Forest Cloud.’ By integrating satellite-detected logging site data into the Forest Cloud, the system enables
                                                                                                                                                                                            Plan
more efficient cross-referencing with administrative information, such as logging applications, thus alleviating the
burden of on-site inspections. The Forest Cloud is also expected to facilitate the early identification of unreported




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Highlights of 2023
logging areas.
   In May 2018, JAXA and the Forestry and Forest Products
Research Institute (FFPRI) signed a basic agreement. In
January 2021, a collaborative cooperation agreement was
established among the three parties, including Ibaraki
Prefecture. This partnership has focused on the development

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Management Reform
and accuracy verification of logging detection technology
using the “Daichi-2” satellite, as well as practical
demonstrations to facilitate administrative applications. This

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Review Committee
initiative, undertaken through the partnership, demonstrated
that logging site data detected from the ‘Daichi-2’ satellite can
be effectively utilized in local forest administration. We have
compiled these findings            into a document           titled      Example of detected logging area data on the Forest Cloud. The detected
“Recommended Procedures for Forest Logging Detection                     logging areas (indicated by red) added to the Forest Cloud are overlaid with                                       JAXA
                                                                         aerial photographs and administrative data. Local government staff can easily
Using ALOS-2/PALSAR-2 Data and Guidelines for
                                                                                                                                                                                            Introduction of JAXA
                                                                         verify the status of logging and the existence of reports by comparing these data.
Administrative Applications.”
                                                                                                                                                                                            Projects

Pioneering the Megawatt Power Era with Jet Passenger Aircraft to Reduce                                                                                            Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Involvement in the
CO2 Emissions                                                                                                                                                                Details


Demonstration of Massive Electric Generation for Aircraft and Wake Adaptive Thruster

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Environment
Technologies (MEGAWATT)
  As the demand for CO2 emission reductions in the aviation sector rises globally, the transition to new energy
sources, such as Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) and hydrogen, is gaining attention. In this context,
electrification technology emerges as a strong candidate for next-generation solutions.



                                                                                                                                                                                                        Social Involvement
   Aiming to become a pioneer in the era of megawatt-class
electric jet passenger aircraft, JAXA has been collaborating
with domestic companies to integrate key technologies and
advance research and development in Massive Electric
Generation for Aircraft and Wake Adaptive Thruster
Technologies (MEGAWATT) since FY2023.

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Initiatives to Achieve
   The MEGAWATT Project aims to demonstrate the
technology for the propulsion system of an electric hybrid
aircraft as a mature, high-power integrated system at an early
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SDGs
stage, enabling Japanese companies to pioneer their
electrification product businesses on a global scale by                  Illustration of CO2 reduction targets and
leveraging their respective strengths. In addition, the results          scenarios* for the aviation industry

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Space Strategy Fund
of the technological development will be used for technology          CO2 emissions
                                                                                           In the absence of technological improvements,
transfer to domestic companies and international                                           CO2 emissions are expected to increase along
                                                                                           with the growth in demand for air transportation
standardization, and are expected to contribute to the

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Projects
electrification of next-generation passenger aircraft.                         Decrease in air transportation                                   (1) Reduction of CO2 emissions through
                                                                               demand due to COVID-19                                               improved aircraft performance
                                                                                                                                                      (2) CO2 emissions reduction through
                                                                                                                                                          improvements in ground
                                                                                                                                                          infrastructure and operations




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                 (3) Expected CO2 emissions reduction
                                                                                                                                                     through the transition to SAF
                                                                                      CO2 emissions after the implementation
                                                                                                     of mitigation measures
                                                                                                        Carbon offsetting, etc.




                                                                                                                                              Net zero

                                                                       *Document re-created by JAXA based on the report from ATAG (Air Transport Action Group)
                                                                       Source: https://aviationbenefits.org/environmental-efficiency/climate-action/waypoint-2050/
                                                                                                                                                                                            Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                            Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                            organization
Involvement in
                                   Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load
the Environment

Promotion of Green Management                                                                                                                                                       Report on Environmentally Friendly Operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Commitment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Environmental Policy at Each Site




                                                                                                                                                                                    Environmentally Friendly Operation                                                                                                                 Environmental Policy at Each Site


       We contribute to global environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Summary of Phase 4
                                                                                                                                                                                         JAXA performs environmentally friendly operations to                                            The results of activities are properly evaluated and reflected
       issues and promote steady and daily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Medium/Long-Term
                                                                                                                                                                                    contribute to global environment preservation and sustainable                                     in next year’s plan.
       environmentally friendly operations.                                                                                                                                         development.           We      established        the     Green       Management                     We also appoint a responsible person at each site and
                                                                                                                                                                                    Committee chaired by the Senior Vice President to set our                                         directorate and clarify the roles and responsibilities to                                 Plan
         JAXA Basic Environmental Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                    goals and implementation plans for the environment such as                                        implement environmentally friendly operations.
         JAXA will conduct activities to maintain the


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Highlights of 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                    rationalization of energy use and proper waste disposal.
         environment on Earth and in space to enable
                                                                                                                                                                                    Based on them, plans for each site are prepared and
         sustainable development of society.                                                  Chairman of Green
                                                                                              Management Committee                                                                  implemented.
         To achieve this, we will:                                                            (Senior Vice President)
          Work to solve global environmental issues and                                     Yasuo Ishii                                                                            Targets and Results for Promoting Green Management
            reduce environmental load through research,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Management Reform
                                                                                              At JAXA, we are promoting research and development in
            development, and utilization.
                                                                                           areas      such       as      Earth         observation          satellites        and     Based on JAXA’s Basic Environmental Policy, we set the targets for promoting green management in FY2023.
          Promote environmentally friendly operations                                                                                                                              The details of the targets and results are shown below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Review Committee
                                                                                           environmentally friendly aircraft. By applying the results of
            and make continuous improvements.
                                                                                           this research to various societal activities, we will contribute
          Disclose information on our efforts to solve                                    to solving environmental and social challenges.                                                       Item                         Setting the targets and KPI*1 in FY2023                                   Achievement status in FY2023                                Reference

            environmental issues and value communication                                      We      will   take      even          greater    consideration           of    the                                  Target specified in the Energy Conservation Act: To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reduce the energy consumption intensity by 1.0% or              We achieved a reduction of 3.3% on average for five years.                                   JAXA
            with all stakeholders.                                                         environment and steadily promote energy-saving activities                                                               more (annually) on average for five years.

                                                                                           and reduction of environmental impact, while continuing to                                                              Reduce greenhouse gas emissions through                         Increased by 3.3% from the previous FY. After investigating the cause                        Introduction of JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                     Initiatives to Save Energy    compliance with the Energy Conservation Act.                    of increase, appropriate measures have been planned.
                                                                                           eliminate environmental accidents, based on our basic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Projects
                                                                                           policy on SDGs.                                                                                                         Compliance with the Tokyo Metropolitan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Environmental Ordinance.                                        Reduced by 45% compared to the base emissions.
Green Management System                                                                                                                                                                                            The Chofu Aerospace Center (CAC) (main office) will             (Preliminary figure before notification to the Tokyo Metropolitan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reduce its CO2 emissions by 25% of the base                     Government*2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   emissions.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Continue to have zero violations of laws and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   There were no violations of laws and regulations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Environment
                                                                         Board of                                                                                                                                  regulations regarding waste disposal.
                                                                                                                                                                                     Initiatives to Create a
                                                                    Directors’ Meeting                                                                                               Recycling-Oriented
                                                                                                                                                                                     Society                                                                                       In accordance with the JAXA Green Procurement Policy and Green
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Give consideration to the reduction of environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Contract Policy 2023, we conducted procurement with consideration of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   load in goods procurement.
                                                           Green Management Committee                                                                                                                                                                                              the reduction of environmental load.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Social Involvement
                                            Chairperson        : Senior Vice President                                                                                               Actions for environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Continue to have zero environmental incidents.                  There were no environmental incidents.
                                                                                                                                                                                     risks
                                            Vice Chairperson   : Vice president responsible for management
                                                                 planning or a person designated by the chairperson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To solve global environmental issues, in collaboration with other
                                            Committee Member : Vice president for procurement, vice president for                                                                    Creation of new value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   organizations, we developed and utilized satellites and other
                                                               safety and mission assurance                                                                                          Contributing to solution of   Research, development, and utilization contributing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   instruments that contribute to the elucidation of climate change and
                                                               Vice president responsible for the department to                                                                      social issues through         to solution of global environmental issues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   monitoring of disasters and conducted R&D in the aeronautic field that
                                                               which the Head of the Site Environment Committee                                                                      business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   contributes to aircraft noise reduction and environmental compatibility.
                                                               belongs, Senior chief officer of mission assurance


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Initiatives to Achieve
                                            Secretariat        : Safety and Mission Assurance Department
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    We held the “CONsortium for Satellite Earth Observation (CONSEO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Symposium 2023,” where the consortium reported on its climate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Communication with stakeholders on environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                     Communication with                                                                              mitigation activities and encouraged the addition of new members.
Person responsible for environmentally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SDGs
                                                                 Person responsible for                                 Energy management system                                     society
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   issues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    We held the “JAXA SDGs Symposium,” featuring lectures by
    friendly operations at each site                                                                                                                                                                               (Public relations and collection of opinions)
                                                          environmentally friendly operations at                          (including reduction of                                                                                                                                    academic experts and presentations on SDG initiatives by JAXA and
(Head of Site Environment Committee)                              each directorate, etc.                                greenhouse gas emissions)                                                                                                                                    private companies in the aerospace sector.

                                                            Promotes environmentally-                         Supervisor            : Senior Vice President



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                                              Assistant Supervisor  : Senior Chief Officer of Mission
       Site Environment Committee                           friendly operation at                                                      Assurance                                    *1    KPI (Key Performance Indicators): Main job performance evaluation indictors (Indicators that can be used to evaluate the action status and achievements for targets)
                                                            directorates in each site                         Planning Promoter     : Head of Safety and Mission Assurance          *2    The figure (45%) will be confirmed after verification by a registered verification organization under the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation.
 Committee Member :                                                                                                                    Department
           Environmental promoters and a person                                                               Assistant Planning Promoter :


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Projects
           designated by the Head of the Committee                                                                                     Director of Ground Facilities Department
                                                                                                              Secretariat           : Safety and Mission Assurance
                                                                                                                                       Department
                                                                                                                                       (Assistant: Ground Facilities
                                                                                                                                       Department)
                                                                                                                                                                                    Prevention of Environmental Incidents and Legal Violations




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                                                         In order to prevent environmental pollution, we ascertain                                    We utilize them to set evacuation routes in disaster drills and
                                                                                                                                                                                    the risks that may lead to environmental accidents in                                             to check actions in case of incidents and update them if
                                                                                                                                                                                    advance, prepare a visualized environmental risk map and a                                        revised. As a result of these efforts, no environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                    list of measures against environmental accidents, and post                                        incidents occurred in FY2023.
                                                                                                                                                                                    them in each building at business sites for ready reference.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                organization
Involvement in
                                    Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load
the Environment

Environmental Performance Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Commitment



JAXA continuously monitors the resources and energy used in its businesses,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Summary of Phase 4
along with their environmental impact, and strives to reduce them.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Medium/Long-Term


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Plan


                                                                                                                                JAXA’s Core Businesses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Highlights of 2023
                Resources and energy                    Unit           FY2023                                                                                                                               Environmental loads                       Unit             FY2023

     Electricity purchased                            K kWh             123,116                                                                                                                                       Energy related                 t-CO2               65,414
                                                                                                                   Artificial
                                                                                                                   satellite                                                                     CO2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Management Reform
     Water resources                                   K m3                  428                                                                   Launch Vehicle                                emissions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Non-energy related             t-CO2                  255
                          Water supply                 K m3                  175


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Review Committee
                          Groundwater                  K m3                    65                                               Tracking network                                                 Calculated amount of leaked CFCs                    t-CO2                  613
                                                                                                                                                                          Manned space
     (Breakdown)                                                                                                                                                            activities
                          Rainwater                    K m3                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOx emissions*1                                        t                   307

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAXA
                          Others*                      K m3                  187
                                                                                        Maintenance/operation of                                                                                 SOx emissions*1                                        t                     59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Introduction of JAXA
     Gasoline (including for vehicles)                   kℓ                    22       facilities and equipment

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Soot emissions*1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Projects
     Kerosene                                            kℓ                    30                                                                                                                                                                       t                      0

     Light oil (including for vehicles)                  kℓ                    46
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Amount of wastewater*2                               K m3                  428

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Involvement in the
     Heavy oil                                           kℓ                8,461
                                                                                                                                                       Use of satellite
                                                                                                                                                          images                                 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)*3                    mg/ℓ                    25
     City gas                                          K m3                  612

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Environment
     Propane gas                                          t                    41                                                                                                                Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)*3                       mg/ℓ                     3

     Petroleum hydrocarbons                            K m3                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                 General waste                                          T                   132
     Liquefied natural gas                                t                    25

                                                                                                                                                                           Administrative and    Industrial waste                                       t                 1,117
     Other combustible natural gases                   K m3                     0                                                                                         general management
                                                                                                                                                                              operations

     Jet fuel (including fuel for flight)                kℓ                    27                                                                                                                Specially-controlled industrial waste                  t                     38

     Aviation gasoline                                   kℓ                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Class I designated chemical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t                     64
                                                                                                                                                                                                 substances
     Liquid nitrogen                                      t                2,371
                                                                                                                                                                                                *1   NOx, SOx, and soot emissions are measured from units generating soot or


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SDGs
     Paper                                                t                      19                                                                                                                  smoke regulated by the Air Pollution Control Act.
                                                                                                                                Aircraft                                                        *2   In cases where the amount of wastewater is not measured, it is calculated based
   ⚫ The data shown here represents the aggregated resources and energy purchased                                                                                                                    on the assumption that the amount of used water is the amount of wastewater.
     by JAXA. The data does not include fuel and other resources purchased by service                                                                                                           *3   BOD and COD are calculated based on the measured values at business sites
     providers due to the transfer of launch services to the private sector.                                                                                                                         having specified facilities under the Water Pollution Prevention Act, and the total
                                                                                                                                                                                                     amount of wastewater at the business sites (per year).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Space Strategy Fund
   * Intake weirs and rivers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Projects




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                        Research and
                                                                                                                                                        Development




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           organization
 Involvement in
                             Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load
the Environment
                                                                                                                                    Top Management Commitment




Trends in the Primary Material Balance                                                                                                    Top Management



                                                                                                                                          Commitment

Amount of Electricity Consumption

   In FY2020, electricity consumption decreased by 16.5%              Electricity                                                   Summary of Phase 4

compared to the previous year due to reduction of operating
rates of major facilities and equipment caused by the COVID-                                                                        Medium/Long-Term


                                                                                                                                    Plan
19 pandemic. However, it subsequently shifted to an increasing
trend, with a 6.3% increase in FY2022 compared to the
previous year, followed by a 4.0% increase in FY2023.



                                                                                                                                                Highlights of 2023
   We will strive to enhance electricity use efficiency to mitigate
the upward trend in consumption.
                                                                                                                         FY2023


Amount of Fuel Consumption


                                                                                                                                          Management Reform
   Similar to electricity, fuel consumption also decreased by         Fuels (gasoline, kerosene, diesel, heavy oil (JIS grade A),
14.8% in FY2020 compared to the previous year due to the              and city gas)
impact of the pandemic, followed by a 17.1% decrease in
FY2021. However, it has shifted to an increasing trend since                                                                              Review Committee
FY2022.
   Fuel consumption in FY2023 remained at the same level as
                                                                                                                                    JAXA
in FY2022 due to the switch of boiler fuel at the Kakuda Space
Center from heavy oil (JIS grade A) to LP gas.
                                                                                                                         FY2023     Introduction of JAXA


                                                                                                                                    Projects
Calculated amount of leaked CFCs


                                                                                                                                          Involvement in the
  In accordance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper
Management of Fluorocarbons, JAXA regularly monitors the              Calculated amount of leaked CFCs
calculated amount of leaked fluorocarbons from air conditioning

                                                                                                                                          Environment
units and other sources, ensuring it remains below the legally
established limit (1,000t-CO2). We ensure that inspections are
conducted at the legally required frequency and replace any
equipment showing signs of corrosion as soon as possible,



                                                                                                                                                Social Involvement
especially at the Tanegashima Space Center and other
facilities in coastal areas where salt air can cause corrosion of
                                                                                                                         FY2023
outdoor air conditioning units and piping.

Amount of Industrial Waste


                                                                                                                                          Initiatives to Achieve
   JAXA disposes of waste appropriately in accordance with            Industrial waste
the Act on Waste Management and Public Cleaning. In

                                                                                                                                          SDGs
determining whether materials are classified as waste and the
methods for outsourcing waste disposal, we adhere to the
“JAXA Waste Disposal Guidelines” or follow the direction of
local municipal governments. In FY2023, the amount of

                                                                                                                                          Space Strategy Fund
industrial waste increased by 54.7% compared to the previous
year. The primary contributing factor was the increase in debris
(587 t) associated with renovation work at the Tanegashima                                                               FY2023

                                                                                                                                          Projects
Space Center.
   Additionally, the amount of specially-controlled industrial        Specially-controlled industrial waste
waste in FY2023 increased by approximately 200% compared




                                                                                                                                                Third-Party Opinions
to the previous year. The main reasons for this increase
include the disposal of low-concentration PCB oil from special
high-voltage power substation equipment (i.e. transformer) at
the Chofu Aerospace Center, as well as the disposal of strong
acids (approximately 3.5 t) and strong alkalis (approximately
5.5 t) from the Boiler House East and the related wastewater
treatment building in the Kakuda Space Center.                                                                           FY2023
                                                                                                                                    Review Results /

                                                                                                                                    Information about

                                                                                                                                    organization
Involvement in
                                                                                              Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load
the Environment

Initiatives to Create a Recycling-Oriented Society                                                                                                                                                             Main environment-friendly activities at business sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Commitment
                                                                                                                                                                                            Promoted by
Promotion of Green Procurement and Green Contracts                                                                                                                                            Training

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Utilization of renewable energy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CO2 emission reduction through wind power generation)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Summary of Phase 4
   Of the 153 items procured in accordance with the JAXA                                                                         Results of procurement of goods that do
                                                                                                                                                                                               (unit: items)
                                                                                                                                 not meet the criteria
Green Procurement Policy in FY2023, we achieved 100%                                                                                                                                                                  The JAXA Tracking and Communications Center has installed
procurement of specified procurement items for 136 items.                                                                                                    FY2021    FY2022                FY2023                                                                                                                                                                              Medium/Long-Term
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wind power generation equipment at the Misasa Deep Space Station
Regarding the remaining 17 items, supervisors checked                                                                                                                                                             (MDSS) in Usuda Deep Space Center, reducing its reliance on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Plan
                                                                                                                                  Procurement of goods
that there were no substitutes, and we made every effort to                                                                       that do not meet the         12          14                   17                commercial power sources and contributing to CO2 emission
procure items that are as environmentally friendly as                                                                             criteria                                                                        reduction efforts. We introduced wind power generation at MDSS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  located in a mountainous area characterized by 1.2 meters of


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Highlights of 2023
possible. In addition to these items, 3 items classified as
public works were procured.                                                                                                      Results of green contract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  snowfall in winter, making it unsuitable for solar power generation, as
                                                                                                                                                                                              (unit: cases)
   Among the 6 types of contracts covered by the Green                                                                                                                                                            well as by strong winds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The generated electricity is stored in lithium-ion batteries, and any
Contract Law, there was one contract for supply of                                                                                                           FY2021    FY2022               FY2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  surplus is used to power on-site operation such as facility equipment,
electricity (contract amount: 315 K kWh), two contracts for
                                                                                                                                  Contracts for supply of                                                         lighting, air conditioning, and to charge NAS batteries*. In the event of
purchase and lease of automobiles, and 6 contracts for                                                                                                         6           3                    1                 an extended power outage, if the power in the NAS batteries is
                                                                                                                                  electricity
disposal of industrial waste.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Management Reform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  depleted, electricity will be supplied to on-site facilities from the
                                                                                                                                  Contracts for purchase
   JAXA’s Green Procurement Policy and Green Contract, and the procurement/contract results                                       and lease of                 1           1                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lithium-ion batteries charged by wind power generation.
        JAXA’s Green Procurement Policy and Green Contract, and the procurement/contract results                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wind power generation facility at JAXA MDSS
                                                                                                                                  automobiles


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Review Committee
                                                                                                                                  Contracts for energy                                                            * NAS batteries are high-temperature secondary batteries used for large-scale energy
                                                                                                                                  saving renovation            0           0                    0                   storage. They are named “NAS batteries” because they use sodium (Na) for the negative
                                                                                                                                  projects                                                                          electrode and sulfur (S) for the positive electrode.

                                                                                                                                  Contracts for design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Power supply under normal conditions                                            Power supply during a power outage
                                                                                                                                  and maintenance of           0           1                    1
                                                                                                                                  buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wind power                                                                     Wind power
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Commercial                                                                      Commercial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Introduction of JAXA
                                                                                                                                  Contracts for disposal                                                          power supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               generation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  power supply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              generation
                                                                                                                                                               7           8                    6                                                              equipment                                                                      equipment
                                                                                                                                  of industrial waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Stored in lithium-ion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            batteries                                                                                            Projects


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NAS               Lithium-ion                                                NAS                 Lithium-ion

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           batteries            batteries                                               batteries              batteries
                                                                                                                                                                                  Details




Actions in the Value Chain                                                                                                                                                                    Details                                                                    Surplus electricity is                                    (1) Power is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                supplied from NAS        (2) After the NAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          used to power the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Station and charge                                       batteries to the    batteries are depleted,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NAS batteries                                             Station        power is supplied to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Power                                                                         Power                        station from the wind
   For goods other than those specified in the JAXA Green                                                                          Our contract selection process includes a framework that                                             Consumption                                                                   Consumption                    power generation facility
Procurement Policy, we select goods that have the least                                                                         prioritizes bidders who actively engage in environmental                                                in the Station                                                                in the Station
environmental load possible while ensuring appropriate price,                                                                   conservation through the publication of environmental



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Social Involvement
function, and quality. In addition, we encourage contractors                                                                    accounting, ISO 14001 certification, or environmental activity
(including subcontractors) for delivery of goods, provision of                                                                  evaluation programs, as well as those who produce and
services, and construction to promote green procurement as                                                                      disclose environmental reports.
much as possible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Coexistence with Local Nature


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Initiatives to Achieve
Enhancement of Environmental Education
                                                                                                                                                                                            Promoted by
                                                                                                                                                                                              Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     At the Kakuda Space Center (KSPC), we collect garbage                            A clean-up activity was held at Takezaki Beach in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  twice a year in collaboration with our cooperative firms. In                     Tanegashima on June 24, 2023, organized by the Minami-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FY2023, we collected a total of 46.7 kg of waste such as                         tane Branch of the Tane-Yaku Corporation Association and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SDGs
● Enhancement of Environmental Education                                                                                        It is an e-learning system that allows students to take courses                   bottles, cans, and PET bottles.                                                  the NPO Corporation Spacecraft Tanegashima. Another
    We provide environmental education not only to our                                                                          at any time.                                                                         The Katsuura Tracking and Communications Station has                          clean-up event took place on November 23, organized by a
employees but also to people belonging to other companies                                                                                                                                                         been collecting garbage since FY2001 in support of the                           volunteer group. Staff members from the Tanegashima
who work within JAXA, and the importance of environmentally                                                                                                                                                       annual Zero Waste Movement conducted in Katsuura City.                           Space Center and employees from related companies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Space Strategy Fund
friendly activities is recognized.                                                                                                                                                                                In FY2023, we collected a total of 13 bags including                             participated in both activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  combustible garbage, bottles, cans, and PET bottles.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Projects




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Third-Party Opinions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cleaning around Kakuda Space Center               Participating in the Katsuura City’s Zero              After cleaning of Takezaki Beach in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (KSPC) twice a year                                  Waste Movement                                        Tanegashima

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 organization
                                             Summary of Phase 4                                            JAXA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Review Results /
                            Top Management                                             Management Reform                          Involvement in the                            Initiatives to Achieve                                                                                                Space Strategy Fund
Top Management Commitment



                                             Medium/Long-Term     Highlights of 2023                       Introduction of JAXA                        Social Involvement                                                                                                                                                                                                      Third-Party Opinions   Information about
                            Commitment                                                 Review Committee                           Environment                                   SDGs                                                                                                                  Projects
                                             Plan                                                          Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   organization
                                                                                                                                                         Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                              Commitment to Social Responsibility



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                33 Community Involvement and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26 Organizational Governance                        28 Fair Operating Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   27 Consumer Issues                                   29 Labour Practices   32 Human Rights      Development
                                                                                                                                                                              26
Social
                                        Commitment to Social Responsibility
Involvement

Organizational Governance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Commitment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Preparing for Large-Scale
Internal Control                                                                                                                                                                                                                Audit System                                                                           Disasters, etc.

   Since becoming a national research and development                                                  Based on the discussions in the Committee, we have                                                                          We established a system to check that internal control is                              We established the Business Continuity Plan at each site to                                       Summary of Phase 4
agency in April 2015, we have been working to strengthen                                               formulated the “Internal Control Promotion Regulation” to                                                                functioning well by combining the audits conducted by the                              prepare for disasters. The Business Continuity Plan defines
internal control. Specifically, in response to the revised Act on                                      replace the “Internal Control Implementation Guideline” starting                                                         auditors and accounting auditors based on the Act on General                           the operations that we should prioritize to ensure the safety of                                     Medium/Long-Term
General Rules for Incorporated Administrative Agencies, we                                             in FY2024. This new regulation aims to raise awareness of                                                                Rules for Incorporated Administrative Agencies and the                                 executives and our employees, as well as the continuation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Plan
specified the internal control system in our business                                                  risks, identify risks early, and implement necessary actions.                                                            internal audits conducted by the Evaluation and Audit                                  and prompt recovery of operations, daily preparation for
procedures and established the “Internal Control                                                       With this new regulation, we have clarified the responsibilities of                                                      Department independent of the business execution                                       disasters, and initial response in the event of a disaster.
Implementation Guideline” to strengthen internal governance.                                           each organization and transitioned to a system that integrates                                                           departments. Audits are conducted for the purpose of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Based on the plan, we are striving to improve our business



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Highlights of 2023
   In September 2023, we established the “Management                                                   internal control with risk management.                                                                                   ensuring appropriate and efficient business execution and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       continuity capability by establishing communication systems
Reform Review Committee” under the leadership of the                                                      We will continue to fulfill our missions as a national research                                                       contributing to the improvement of business operations, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       including a safety confirmation system, stockpiling spare
President in response to the recommendations from the                                                  and development agency in an effective and efficient manner                                                              audit results are reported to the President as needed and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shared at board meetings, etc.                                                         equipment and supplies necessary for initial response,
Evaluation of Independent Administrative Agencies.                                                     while complying with laws and regulations and implementing
                                                                                                       internal control.                                                                                                           In addition, information regarding the audits is described on                       maintenance, and recovery, and conducting large-scale
Additionally, we examined the structure of internal control,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                our website in accordance with Article 22 of the “Act on                               earthquake drills.
including risk management, and prepared a report.                                                           JAXA Internal Control Implementation Guideline


                                                                                                                             JAXA Internal Control Implementation Guideline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Access to Information Held by Independent Administrative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Agencies.”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Management Reform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Audits in JAXA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Promoted by
New organizational structure for the promotion of internal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Audits in JAXA   Ensuring information security                                                            Training
control (including risk management) (since FY2024)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Promotion of Risk Management                                                              With cyberattacks becoming increasingly sophisticated,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       some of the information managed by JAXA was compromised
                                                                                              Accounting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       due to unauthorized external access in FY2023. We deeply
                                                                     Auditor                   Auditor                                                                                                                             JAXA identifies risks in each project and implements risk                           apologize for the significant impact and distress caused to all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JAXA
                                                                                          (Audit Corporation)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                reduction activities.                                                                  those affected.
                                                                 Audit                      Audit                                                                                                                                  We have also established a Comprehensive Risk                                          To prevent recurrence, JAXA implemented short-term
           Internal Control                                                                                                                                                                                                     Response Team to promote comprehensive risk management                                 measures and considered long-term solutions. These include                                           Introduction of JAXA
           (including risk management)                                                                                                                                                                                          for risks in general operations other than projects and other                          strengthened monitoring across the entire network, including
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                businesses. Specifically, we have identified risks that should                         endpoints, improved external connection methods, more                                                Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                be intensively managed, such as ICT and security risks                                 efficient and transparent operational management, and
                                                                                President                                                                                                                                       related to information systems, compliance risks, and risks                            enhanced anti-spoofing measures. We are currently working
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Involvement in the
                                                             <Board member responsible for internal control>                                                                                                                    associated with research misconduct and the misuse of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cooperate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to implement these measures and solutions to further
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                research funds. Each division and department has set activity                          strengthen our information security.
                                                                     Board of Directors’ Meeting                                                                                                                                targets to reduce these prioritized risks in their respective
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          We also contribute to nationwide initiatives to mitigate the
                                                            <Deliberation of important matters related to internal                                                                                                              business plans, addressing risk reduction as part of their daily                       threat of cyberattacks that go beyond the activities of a single
                                                                                  control>                                                                                                                                      operations.                                                                            organization. These include preparing industry-specific
           Project                                                                                                                                                        General                                                  Starting from FY2024, we have transitioned to a system                              security guidelines with related organizations, discussing and
          Operations                                                                                                                                                     Operations                                             that integrates risk management and internal control. For                              sharing overseas initiatives, and sharing the threats identified



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                details on our risk management starting in FY2024, please                              by JAXA with security specialized companies and relevant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                refer to the “Internal Control” section.
                                                                                                                                                                                      3rd Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       organizations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation and
                    Vice President for strategic
                    planning and management                                       Vice President for general affairs
                                                                                     <Board member in charge of internal
                   <Board member in charge of internal
                                                                                                control>
                              control>
                                                                                   Director of General Affairs Dept.
                  Director of Strategic Planning                                   <Director responsible for the promotion of


                                                                                                                                                                                                 Audit Department
                     and Management Dept.                                                       internal control>
                  <Director responsible for the promotion
                             of internal control>


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                              2nd Line


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SDGs
          * Internal audits include projects
                                                                                 Depts. in charge of risk management
                                                                                                                                                                              Internal                                          Consumer Issues
                                                                                                                                                                               Audit*
                                                                                       across the organization
                                                                                   <Internal Control Promotion Department>


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Promoted by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Disclosure and Provision of Information                                                Protection of Personal Information                                                       Training
                                                                                                          1.5th Line

                                                                              1st Line

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Projects
                                                                                                             Management and
            The organization’s name and function in
            the regulations are indicated within <>.
                                                                                                           Integration Dept., etc.                                                                                                 Under the “Act on Access to Information Held by                                        In FY2023, we discovered that some information managed
               Upward arrow       Downward arrow =                                                                                                                                                                              Independent Administrative Agencies,” anyone can request                               by JAXA had been compromised due to unauthorized external
               = Reporting        Directing / support
                                                                                             Directorates and Departments, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JAXA to disclose corporate documents. We follow the                                    access. We contacted and apologized individually to the
               Supervising                                                                                                                                                                                                      procedures for information disclosure in response to requests                          affected parties and reported the incident to the Personal



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Third-Party Opinions
               meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                for disclosure in accordance with this law.                                            Information Protection Commission. To protect the rights and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Request for Information Disclosure and Various Public Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       interests of individuals while ensuring the appropriate and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Request for Information Disclosure and Various                                smooth operation of our business, we will continually specify
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Public Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       matters concerning the protection of personal information in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       our Personal Information Protection Regulations to protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       personal information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Regulations to Protect Personal Information and Request for Information Disclosure




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Review Results /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Regulations to Protect Personal Information and Request for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Information Disclosure

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            organization
Social
                                                                         Commitment to Social Responsibility
Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Top Management Commitment




Fair Operating Practices                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Commitment
                                                                                                   Promoted by
Promotion of Compliance                                                                              Training
                                                                                                                 Fair Execution of Research and                                                         Promoted by
                                                                                                                 Appropriate Use of Research Funds                                                        Training

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Summary of Phase 4
   To ensure the proper execution of our business in accordance
with laws and regulations, we established a whistleblowing hotline                                                 In order to thoroughly enforce the rules and raise employee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Medium/Long-Term
to receive reports of violations of laws and regulations.                                                        awareness, we have established the “Code of Conduct for
   In addition, in order to receive consultations widely on issues                                               Researchers” (for fair execution of research) and the “Basic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Plan
that do not fall under the above whistleblowing, we have                                                         Policy and Code of Conduct” (for appropriate use of research
established a compliance hotline, and receive consultations on                                                   funds). Under the Research Ethics Committee and the Office for
JAXA’s compliance from both inside and outside of JAXA.                                                          Prevention of Misconduct in Competitive Research Funds, we are



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Highlights of 2023
Furthermore, we educate and train our directors and employees                                                    working to prevent misconduct and ensure proper operational
on a regular basis to raise awareness.                                                                           management.
                                                                                                                   In FY2022, through the research on stress accumulation
                                                                                                                 assessment in a long-term closed environment (simulated space
System to Manage Conflict of                                                                       Promoted by   habitation environment), non-conformity to the government’s
Interest                                                                                             Training
                                                                                                                 medical guidelines was confirmed. Based on this incident, we
                                                                                                                 have conducted factor analysis, including background factors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Management Reform
  We have introduced a system to manage conflict of interest to                                                  and are strengthening our efforts to prevent research
promote collaborative activities with universities and industries.                                               misconduct. In 2023, we restructured our medical research
We require self-assessment of our directors and employees and                                                    management under the leadership of the department head to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Review Committee
established a Conflict-of-Interest Management Committee and a                                                    improve internal control and oversight. As part of this initiative,
Conflict-of-Interest Management Advisor (external lawyer) to                                                     we enhanced awareness-raising efforts, promoted adherence to
provide advice and check to ensure that our directors and                                                        our rules, and fostered active communication within the
employees appropriately conduct industrial collaboration                                                         organization.
activities.                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAXA
                                                                                                                    Prevention of Misconduct in Research and Appropriate Management of Research Funds



                                                                                                                            Prevention of Misconduct in Research and Appropriate Management of
                                                                                                                                                      Research Funds

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Introduction of JAXA
     Actions for Compliance Conflict of Interest




                                                   Actions for Compliance & Conflict of Interest


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Promoted by
                                                                                                                 Appropriate Contracts                                                                    Training
                                                                                                   Promoted by
Export Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Involvement in the
                                                                                                     Training
                                                                                                                    As an agency that uses the national budget, JAXA strives to
  In response to the global consensus on preventing the                                                          fairly conduct projects by attaching importance to transparency
                                                                                                                 and fairness in contracts. As an example, discretionary contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Environment
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, Japan established
laws and regulations such as the Foreign Exchange Act and                                                        that exceed the criteria for the small-amount discretionary
Export Trade Control Order that specify regulate export items                                                    contract are reviewed by the Contract Review Committee to
and export license systems.                                                                                      check that competition is promoted and that the contract
                                                                                                                 processes are in accordance with the regulations. The concluded



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Social Involvement
  We established internal regulations based on these laws and
regulations and are working to ensure the implementation of                                                      contracts are announced on our website.
export control by examining export cargo, educating staff, and                                                      In recent years, the scope of procurement management has
conducting audits.                                                                                               been expanded for project operations, and the Procurement
  In accordance with the revision to the statutes pertaining to                                                  Department has been involved from the stage of selecting
the Foreign Exchange Law that came into effect in May 2022,                                                      companies in charge of development to promote dialogue with
we are also reviewing the operation for “deemed exports” and                                                     those companies. Thus, we promote actions to ensure fairness
                                                                                                                 and rational procurement.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Initiatives to Achieve
taking appropriate measures such as checking whether they fall
                                                                                                                          JAXA Procurement Policy



under a specific category.                                                                                                                             JAXA Procurement Policy
                                                                                                   Promoted by
Management of Intellectual Property                                                                  Training


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SDGs
   Based on the intellectual property policy, JAXA is striving
toward the creation of businesses that utilize the results of R&D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Space Strategy Fund
and the promotion of efforts to stimulate open innovation by
identifying and protecting the technological results it has created
as intellectual property, and by appropriately transferring them to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Projects
the Japanese industry, etc.
   In addition, we are working to respond appropriately to the
non-disclosure system of patent applications under the
Economic and Security Promotion Act that came into effect in




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Third-Party Opinions
May 2024.
     Intellectual Property Policy




                                    Intellectual Property Policy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      organization
Social
                                        Commitment to Social Responsibility
Involvement

Labour Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Commitment
                                                                                                                                                   The ideal talent JAXA aims to cultivate
Efforts to Utilize Human Resources                                                                                                                                                                         Actions for a better Work-Life Balance (WLB)
                                                                                                      Human resources who have the motivation and ability to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Summary of Phase 4
   We are working to develop human resources throughout                                                  propose and create new value for society through
                                                                                                     aerospace based on their specialized skills and continue to
                                                                                                                                                                                                             In April 2023, we formulated a new action plan with the aim of
the organization by establishing the “Phase 4 Human                                                                                                                                                        verifying further measures to promote women’s active engagement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Medium/Long-Term
Resources Development Implementation Policy” as the priority                                                           take on challenges
                                                                                                                                                                                                           and resolving the issues that arose while promoting the working                           Details




in medium to long-term human resources development,                                                                                                                                                        system “New way of working.”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Details
aiming to both realize the career design of each employee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Plan
                                                                                                      Phase 4 Human Resources Development Policy



                                                                                                                  Phase 4 Human Resources Development
                                                                                                                                 Policy
and maximize the results of the organization.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Unified Action Plan of the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Highlights of 2023
               Actions                                                            Results of actions related to human resources in FY2023                                                                      Generation and the Act on the Promotion of Women’s Active Engagement in
 Strengthen the human resource
 base in the aerospace field by
                                          We are continuously focusing on increasing the recruitment of experienced personnel (i.e. mid-career recruitment) in order to secure                                 Professional Life
                                          industry-ready personnel with diverse backgrounds and careers. The number of newly hired experienced personnel in FY2023 was 28,
 enhancing the mobility of human
 resources
                                          thanks to efforts such as the year-round hiring schedule and the introduction of Web interviews, etc.                                                                (April 1, 2023 - March 31, 2025)
                                          Under the cross-appointment system, 11 new employees were accepted and one JAXA employee was newly sent out to external
 Exchange of human resources with
                                          organizations. We strengthened the human resource base through human resource exchanges with external organizations, such as
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1) Targets and Measures for Supporting the Development of the Next Generation
 the private sector and promotion of
                                          promoting space utilization/development with JAXA’s knowledge and expertise. In FY2023, including the cases that continued since the
 new aerospace business


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Management Reform
                                          previous fiscal year, a total of 37 employees were accepted from external organizations, and 5 employees were sent out from JAXA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Creating a totally comfortable working environment for employees at various life stages, through review of the leave system from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the user’s perspective, such as making it easy to understand and to use.
 Operation of work systems that           By creating an environment in which employees can choose diverse and flexible ways of working by combining working in the office,                                       Target
 enable diverse and flexible working      telework, and flextime systems in accordance with the job type and life stage of individual employees, we have established a “new way of                                             Regarding the balance between childbirth, child rearing and work, JAXA’s work system in general is to obtain satisfaction by 80%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Review Committee
 styles                                   working” so that employees can demonstrate their abilities and work with new ideas.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or more of those who have a right to use the maternity/paternity (childcare) leave system.

 Health management that enables           Our health management goal is to establish a workplace where everyone tries to understand one another, ensuring psychological safety,                                                Continuing from the previous year, we designated recommended days for taking leave and introduced a recommended week for
 employees to work in a physically        while maintaining mental and physical well-being and thriving in their own unique way. To achieve this goal, executive, management,
 and mentally healthy manner              general staff members are all working towards this vision from their respective positions.                                                                                           extended leave with a high rejuvenation effect, aiming to create an environment where employees can more easily take time off.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Additionally, we reviewed the conditions for taking WLB leave to further facilitate its use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Actions for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FY2023        We promote male participation in childcare by sharing information on procedures and examples of men taking childcare leave.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Introduction of JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               As part of this effort, we conducted interviews with male employees who have taken such leave and featured these interviews on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               our website. To assess the usability of the maternity/paternity (childcare) system, we conducted a satisfaction survey following
                                                                                                Based on the results of analysis of past accidents, we will                                                                    the end of each childcare leave period. Over 90% of users responded that they were glad to have taken the leave.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Projects
                                                                       Promoted by
Retention Rate of New Staff                                              Training
                                                                                                continue to conduct safety management tailored to the
                                                                                                circumstances at each site, and implement measures to
  The retention rate three years after joining is 97% (based on                                 achieve “zero” work-related accidents resulting in injury leave.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Involvement in the
36 new graduates hired in FY2021). We provide generous                                                                                                                                       Promoted by
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (2) Goals and Measures for Promoting Women’s Active Engagement
support, such as guidance through on-the-job training at the                                    Labor-Management Relations                                                                     Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Reducing the annual total number of overtime workers who work more than 80 hours per month (including managers, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Environment
assigned department (OJT system) in the first year, and follow-                                                                                                                                                                employees in discretionary work systems) by 20% from the average for the past 3 years (FY2020 to FY2022).
up training and career counseling in the second year.                                              In accordance with the Labor Standards Act, we respect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Maintaining and improving the ratio of female managers to 10% or more, continually.
                                                                                                labor management autonomy and make decisions on matters                                                           Target
Number of new employees by gender in FY2023                                                     related to working conditions (wages, working hours, benefits,                                                                 From a long-term perspective, we will support female schoolers and students from junior high schools, high schools, and




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Social Involvement
                                                                                                etc.) through consultations with the labor union.                                                                              universities to enter science universities and graduate schools in the future, and to help choosing the career paths to
                                                               Experienced                                                                                                                                                     researchers, etc.
                              New graduates hired
                                                              employees hired
 Male                                  27 people                21 people                                                                                                                    Promoted by
                                                                                                Health Management                                                                              Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Regarding overtime management, we regularly reported overtime hours and trends by department and period at meetings
 Female                                12 people                  7 people
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               attended by the management team, ensuring that management stayed informed of the current situation.

Reemployment after Retirement                                                                      In response to “Health Management Policy” introduced in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To foster female leadership and develop a leadership pipeline, we held a discussion session called “Career Terakoya” with
                                                                                                2020, we started the “Fit motto project” which aimed to create                                                                 managers, providing employees with an opportunity to better visualize their future careers. Additionally, we conducted

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Initiatives to Achieve
   In accordance with the revised Act on Stabilization of                                       more comfortable workplaces where employees can work                                                                           unconscious bias training for all employees to raise awareness and drive continuous mindset change.
Employment of Elderly Persons, we established a system to                                       actively and healthier (fit) with “health” as a motto. [Fit motto is
                                                                                                a coined term from “fit” and the Japanese word “motto                                                                          Leveraging special exhibition events held at our Tsukuba, Chofu, and Sagamihara sites, we provided career support by
rehire those who wish to work after retirement until the end of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SDGs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               presenting female role models who are excelling in their fields and offering career counseling sessions, primarily for female
the fiscal year when they reach 65 years of age. Currently,                                     (more).”] In FY2023, we implemented various initiatives aimed                                                                  students.
about 110 rehired employees are working in various                                              at achieving our health management goals, focusing on two
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               We promoted the development of networks between students and researchers through various initiatives, including hosting a
workplaces, while making use of their rich experience and                                       main objectives: 1) increasing individual physical activity                                                     Actions for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               networking event between incoming students and JAXA staff, creating the “ISAS NAVI” platform to help users find details of
specialized abilities.                                                                          (addressing lack of exercise), and 2) revitalizing                                                               FY2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               research and researchers based on their areas of interest (keywords), and supporting student community-led events.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Space Strategy Fund
   We also have revised the current work regulations, setting                                   communication in the workplace. Specifically, our health
the retirement age at 65. However, a transition period has                                      promotion campaign, which included walking, health activities,                                                                 We further enhanced our web content “ISAS GATE,” which widely disseminates the latest research outcomes and researcher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               information, making it a platform for students to share their paper abstracts and other related information.
been established, and the retirement age will be gradually                                      and team-based radio gymnastic exercises, attracted 627

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Projects
increased over time. Additionally, we have introduced an age                                    participants in the spring session and 683 in the autumn
limit system for managerial personnel, where employees who                                                                                                                                                                     We conducted a pilot workshop for incoming students, teaching basic research activities and paper writing, while providing
                                                                                                session. Employees showed great enthusiasm for the                                                                             information on pursuing a career as a researcher. At the special exhibition event at the Sagamihara site, we introduced JAXA’s
reach the retirement age will have the opportunity to contribute                                campaign, with the average number of steps walked exceeding                                                                    student acceptance program to visitors and offered career counseling to middle and high school students at the booth.
as “Senior Advisors,” starting from FY2024.                                                     8,000, leading to improvements in both physical and mental




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                well-being. Additionally, participating in teams led to increased                                                              We started a consultation service for researchers at various life stages and, based on feedback from staff, developed concrete
Safety Management                                                                               interaction across departments and offices, contributing to the                                                                measures to improve the work environment. These efforts were aimed at creating an environment that supports the success of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               diverse talent.
                                                                                                revitalization of communication.
   In FY2023, we continued to foster safety awareness
                                                                                                   JAXA is committed to respecting each employee and strives
through e-learning based safety education reflecting past
                                                                                                to create a healthy workplace where everyone feels safe.
accidents and other incidents, and conducted activities such
                                                                                                Through these initiatives, we aim to increase active exchanges
as identifying dangerous areas and implementing
                                                                                                of ideas within JAXA, promote innovation, and further enhance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Review Results /
countermeasures through safety patrols, near-miss reporting,
                                                                                                employee motivation.
and sharing information that contributes to preventive safety.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   organization
Social
                                 Commitment to Social Responsibility
Involvement

Labour Practices                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Commitment
Systems that support a better work-life balance                                                                                                                   Work Style Reform                                                   Upon introduction, we will ensure strict measures are in place
                                               Actions                                                            Description                                                                                                         to prevent unauthorized access and loss of devices.
                                                                               Opening the facilities to the public, and dissemination of information at online                                                                          Furthermore, we reviewed and abolished the use of seals
                                                                                                                                                                  ⚫ New way of working                                                                                                                         Summary of Phase 4
                         Career advice for next generation
 Career Advice
                                                                               events, etc.                                                                                                                                           and signatures in line with the government’s Regulatory
                         Career Terakoya (discussion meeting), mentor                                                                                                With the aim of transforming work and life, JAXA has been        Reform Implementation Plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Medium/Long-Term
                                                                               Supporting the growth of employees by holding discussion meetings, etc.
                         system                                                                                                                                   promoting diverse and highly productive working styles of
                         JAXA Hoshinoko Nursery School / JAXA Soranoko                                                                                            respective employees by preparing a healthy and vibrant work        Activities to Improve Employee Engagement
                                                                               Tsukuba Space Center / Chofu Aerospace Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Plan
                         Nursery School
                                                                                                                                                                  environment. In addition, in response to COVID-19, we are
                         Subsidized childcare (babysitter) programs for sick
 Support for Childcare   and post-sick children                                                                                                                   actively working for expansion of the telework system,
                         Work system supporting childcare and nursing          Paternity leave (for men), shorter working hours for child rearing, shorter        adoption of a new flextime work system by eliminating the              Continuing from FY2022, we held the JAXA FESTIVAL
 and Nursing Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2023 under the theme of “a networking festival that fosters


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Highlights of 2023
                         care                                                  working hours for nursing care, etc.                                               restrictions on core hours, etc., review of the break time
                         Lunch networking event for childcare                  A place to exchange information                                                    system such as eliminating simultaneous breaks at lunch time,       new connections, sparks discoveries, and instills the courage
                         Nursing care seminar                                  Provision of information                                                           introduction of a break system that allows employees to divide      and pride needed to embrace challenges within JAXA.” The
                         Review of flextime/intermission system, etc.
                                                                               Flexible working system, reduction of overtime, and management of working
                                                                                                                                                                  their daily working hours into multiple portions, and utilization   festival attracted over 300 participants, exceeding the
                                                                               hours according to working conditions                                                                                                                  previous event, and fostered lively interactions. Post-event
                         Teleworking                                           Promoting new ways of working by easing conditions                                 of online meetings, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                     Starting from FY2023, we reviewed the conditions for taking      survey results showed an increase in participant satisfaction
                         Use of IT tools                                       Utilizing information systems and web conferences
                                                                                                                                                                  certain types of leave to make it easier for employees to use       from the previous year, rising from 89% to 95%. Additionally,
 Work Style Reform                                                             Establishing the Harassment Committee and upgrading the Counselor

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Management Reform
                         Measures against harassment                           System in order to create a harassment-free work environment in which              them. Through initiatives such as designating recommended           83% of participants reported achieving one of the key
                                                                               each employee can work comfortably                                                 days for taking leave, a recommended week for extended              objectives for FY2023: fostering a sense of shared purpose
                         Paperless                                             Streamlining meetings, etc., and abolishing the use of signatures and seals        leave, and avoiding the scheduling of regular meetings during       with their peers.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Review Committee
                         Consciousness raising                                 Conducting unconsciousness bias training                                           these periods, we are working to create a workplace                    As part of our Management Reform, we regard this festival,
                                                                                                                                                                  environment that makes it easier for employees to take leaves.      conducted under the newly established Talent and
                                                                                  Special leave includes leave given for volunteer work and for                                                                                       Organizational Development Council, as a key organizational
Career Advice                                                                                                                                                                                                                         development event. We also plan to hold it again in FY2024.
                                                                                  donating bone marrow for bone marrow transplantation. We
                                                                                                                                                                  ⚫ Use of IT tools
                                                                                  also have the leave systems such as family care leave,                                                                                                                                                                       JAXA
⚫ Career advice for next generation                                               childcare leave, and leave with spouse.                                             We have introduced secure IT tools to support various ways
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Introduction of JAXA
   During a special office opening event, we hosted a talk                                                                                                        of working. All employees are provided with a lightweight
session introducing female employees’ career choices,                                                                                                             mobile laptop equipped with a webcam as standard, and
                                                                                  ⚫ Promotion of use of various programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Projects
insights into their actual work, and a male employee’s                                                                                                            participation in meetings and other discussions via web
                                                                                     JAXA has set up an internal website within the organization
experiences balancing work and child-rearing—all presented                                                                                                        conferencing has become the norm. In addition to the
                                                                                  that provides an overview of various programs designed to
as role models for career development. As a new initiative in                                                                                                     introduction of tools, we are also working to improve the
                                                                                  support employees in balancing work and private life,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Involvement in the
FY2023, we also organized a workplace tour on the special                                                                                                         literacy of our employees to use them.
                                                                                  including procedures for utilizing programs related to
open day at the Sagamihara Campus, giving visitors an                                                                                                                 Additionally, as part of our DX initiatives aimed at creating
                                                                                  childbirth, childcare, caregiving, and more. For employees
opportunity to observe female employees actively engaged in                                                                                                       an environment where each employee can choose their
                                                                                  with a new child, we encourage program utilization by offering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Environment
their work.                                                                                                                                                       preferred work style and demonstrate their best performance,
                                                                                  individualized explanations of available support options.                                                                                                          In celebration of JAXA’s 20th anniversary
   JAXA is actively engaged in international networking                                                                                                           we are introducing business smart devices (smartphones).
activities. Through participation in the Diversity and Inclusion
for Space Education session at the 29th Asia-Pacific Regional                     ⚫ On-site nurseries
                                                                                    We operate on-site nurseries at two sites, the Tsukuba



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Social Involvement
Space Agency Forum (APRSAF-29) and hosting an official
side event, we facilitated discussions on women’s                                 Space Center and Chofu Aerospace Center, to provide a
empowerment and the promotion of diversity within space                           comfortable working environment where employees can
agencies and across the Asia-Pacific region.                                      balance work and childcare.
                                                                                                                                                                  Human Rights
                                                                                  ⚫ Work system supporting childcare and nursing care
⚫ Mentoring and other programs                                                       We allow employees to limit overtime and late-night work
   Experienced mentors (senior employees), separate from                          and to work shorter hours for childcare until their children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Initiatives to Achieve
direct supervisors in the workplace, interact with the mentees                    reach the third grade. In addition, subsidized childcare
(junior employees) to help them solve their problems and                          (babysitter) programs for sick and post-sick children are                       Efforts to Prevent Harassment                        Promoted by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The Harassment Committee, which is composed of not only
concerns in career formation, and support their personal                          available until their children reach the sixth grade. In                                                                                            members from JAXA such as the Human Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SDGs
growth. Additionally, we continued to hold the “Career                            September 2019, we were certified by the Minister of Health,                                                                                        Department but also representatives of workers and external
                                                                                                                                                                  ⚫ Establishment of Training and Hotlines for                        lawyers, performs harassment recognition for individual
Terakoya” discussion sessions with managers, which were                           Labor and Welfare as a “childcare supporting company”
                                                                                                                                                                      harassment prevention                                           consultations, and promotes measures based on the analysis
launched in FY2022, aiming to provide opportunities for                           (Kurumin certification) based on the Act on Advancement of
                                                                                                                                                                     In order to raise awareness of harassment and prevent its        of JAXA’s current situation to realize harassment-free
employees to visualize their future careers. Additionally, as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                  Measures to Support Raising Next- Generation Children.
                                                                                                                                                                  occurrence, we have issued a harassment prevention                  workplaces.
part of our ongoing efforts to foster awareness and address                          For nursing care, in addition to leave and vacation,
                                                                                                                                                                  declaration from the President as a message from the top. In
unconscious biases (stemming from assumptions) about                              employees can limit overtime and late-night work and work
                                                                                                                                                                  addition, we conduct training on compliance and harassment-
social gender roles and past experiences, we have                                 shorter hours while caring for a family member in need of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Projects
                                                                                                                                                                  related issues. To ensure that employees do not take on their
implemented annual unconscious bias training for all                              constant nursing care. In addition, we hold nursing care                                                                                            Elimination of Discrimination
                                                                                                                                                                  concerns about harassment and the work environment alone,                                                                      Promoted by
employees since FY2021.                                                           seminars and briefing sessions describing our support                                                                                               against the Disabled                                         Training
                                                                                                                                                                  we have established consultation channels both internally
                                                                                  systems to provide information to our staff.
                                                                                                                                                                  within the organization and externally.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         In response to the enactment of the “Act for Eliminating
                                                                                  ⚫ Lunch networking event for childcare                                          ⚫ Establishment of the Harassment Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities” on April 1,
Support for Childcare and Nursing Care                                               Our offices in Chofu, Tokyo, Tsukuba, and Sagamihara                            In October 2021, we established the Harassment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2016, we established internal regulations on what kind of
                                                                                  hold monthly lunch networking events for childcare during                       Committee, chaired by the Vice President responsible for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      recognition our executives and employees should have
                                                                                  lunch breaks. In this event, anyone, regardless of gender, can                  personnel affairs, based on the results of a study by the
⚫ Various leave systems                                                                                                                                                                                                               regarding the Act, etc., and have been implementing various
                                                                                  participate in exchanging information, including employees                      Harassment Countermeasures Study Team (composed of
  JAXA has established various leave systems such as                                                                                                                                                                                  activities. In addition, the Compliance Hotline provides
                                                                                  who are raising children, who have subordinates raising                         labor and management), which was established to study new
annual paid leave, special leave, nursing leave for children                                                                                                                                                                          consultation on discrimination against persons with disabilities
                                                                                  children, and who want to gather information for their future                   measures against harassment based on the “Act on                                                                                             Review Results /
and nursing care leave.                                                                                                                                                                                                               as a part of its wide range of services.
                                                                                  child rearing.                                                                  Comprehensive Promotion of Labor Measures, Stabilization of
                                                                                                                                                                  Employment of Employees, and Enrichment of Their Working                                                                                     Information about
                                                                                                                                                                  Lives” (Act No.132 of 1966) and other related laws and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               organization
                                                                                                                                                                  regulations.
Social
                                         Commitment to Social Responsibility
Involvement

Community Involvement and Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Commitment

Public Relations and Events                                                                         ⚫ Website, SNS, live streaming                                                                                    Support to Space Education for the Next Generation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Summary of Phase 4
   In FY2023, our public relations activities focused on the
launch of the X-Ray Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission                                                 X (formerly Twitter)
                                                                                                                                    YouTube JAXA                 Subchannel
                                                                                                                                                              dedicated to live
                                                                                                                                                                                                Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Using space as material, we will raise children with curiosity, spirit of adventure, and craftmanship, based on
                                                                                                                                       Channel                event distribution
                                                                                                        Number of followers                                                                     Number of followers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the preciousness of life.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Medium/Long-Term
(XRISM) and the Smart Lander for Investigating Moon (SLIM)                                                                            Number of registrants   Number of subscribers:



aboard the No. 47 H-IIA launch vehicle, as well as astronaut
                                                                                                      486,000                       394,000                   30,000                          249,000                    In 2005, under the motto “Space ignites children’s minds,” the Space Education Center started with the aim of “fostering young
                                                                                                         people                        people                   people                           people
Satoshi Furukawa’s long-term stay at the International Space                                                                                                                                                          people with broad insights and fertile minds” making use of knowledge and technologies gained through space exploration and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Plan
Station (ISS). Additionally, considering the failures and other                                                                                                                                                       space development. In collaboration with educators who are directly responsible for the development of children, we have been
significant issues that occurred since 2022, we worked to                                                                                                                                                             developing projects that utilize our various achievements in the aerospace field. We will continue to contribute to the development



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Highlights of 2023
restore public trust by providing timely, transparent, and                                                                                                                                                            of human resources who will pave the way for the future.
interactive information.
   The results of our public relations activities include the                                          We actively provide highly transparent information through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Activities by Space Education Center - Program Map
numerous messages of support we received following the                                              JAXA’s official website, concierge and community site “Fan!                                                                                                                                                                                     Production of educational materials on space                                                      Educational information magazine “Sora no Tobira” (Portal to Space)




successful pinpoint lunar landing of SLIM in January 2024, as                                       Fun! JAXA,” SNS, and YouTube.                                                                                        Support for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Training for teachers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Training for teachers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Class collaboration




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Class collaboration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Production of educational                                                                 Educational information
well as the successful launch of the second H3 rocket test                                             In order to appeal to young people who are relatively                                                             school education                                                                                                                                   materials on space                                                                    magazine “Sora no Tobira”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Space Education Leaders Seminar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (Portal to Space)
vehicle in February of the same year. Leveraging the                                                uninterested in space, we created and distributed promotional                                                        Support for                  Cosmic College                                    Space School®


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Space Education Leaders                                                    Space Education Symposium




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cosmic College                                 Space School®

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Management Reform
experience gained during the COVID-19 pandemic, we                                                  videos introducing our projects, incorporating original music                                                        social education                                                                                                                                      Seminar                                                                    Space Education Symposium
disseminated information through a hybrid format combining                                          by popular composers and animations by video artists, while                                                                                                                                         Aerospace School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ISEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Student Dispatch Program




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ISEB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Regional Forum on Space Education




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Regional Forum on Space
                                                                                                    striving to cultivate a new audience.                                                                                Provision of                                                                                         Aerospace School
both in-person and online methods.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Student Dispatch Program                                                                         Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         experience-based                                                                                                                                                                                                             APRSAF Subcommittee of Space Education for All




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Review Committee
                                                                                                       We broadcasted rocket launch events live in both                                                                  learning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     APRSAFcontest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           APRSAF
Results of implementation in FY2023                                                                 Japanese and English, and during the SLIM lunar landing, the                                                                                                                  APRSAF                                                                                                                                                                             Subcommittee of Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Poster contest                                                                                                                                                                          Education for All
                                              FY2022                               FY2023           total number of views across both languages reached 3
  Number of visitors to the                                                                         million. Just after the successful launch of the second H3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               About “JAXA Space Education Center”




                                         401,000 people*                       555,000 people*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                About “JAXA Space Education Center”
                                                                                                    rocket test vehicle, we released a 2.5-minute highlight video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JAXA
  exhibition hall
  Press release                              168 times                            120 cases         of the development. The video was shown at science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Introduction of JAXA
   Press conferences and
                                                53 times                          47 cases          museums and on digital signage at subway stations, among
   briefings
                                                                                                    other places, and received a significant response.                                                                                                                                                Major Space Educational Support
   Number of staff dispatched for
                                               354 times/                         335 times/                                                                                                                                                                                                                Activities in FY2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Projects
   lectures/Number of audience
                                             98,388 people                      97,026 people
   members
*Including visitors to the exhibition of the facilities
                                                                                                    ⚫ Bulletin JAXA’s                                                                                                           We increased opportunities for learning about space across various educational settings by offering online

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              educational activities, actively holding web-based courses, and producing digital teaching materials.
                                                                                                       It is available in two
                                                                                                    media types: an easy-to-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Environment
                                                                                                    read     tabloid   (paper)                                                                                                 Hands-on programs                                                                                                                                                   Community Engagement Support
                                                                                                    version and a web version.                                                                                                     We held an online program “JAXA Academy,” where high school and                                                                                                    The Cosmic College and Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               university students had the opportunity to learn directly from JAXA staff,                                                                                          Education Leaders Seminar, implemented
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               astronauts, and other professionals. As the chair country of the ISEB*, we                                                                                          in cooperation with space education
                                                                                                    The web version includes all the contents that were not



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               implemented the “ISEB Student Dispatch” program to offer Japanese                                                                                                   instructors and educators from all over the
                                                                                                    included in the tabloid version due to limited space. We have                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  country, was actively held online and in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               students opportunities for international learning experience. Additionally, we
                                                                                                    invited people from different fields to appear in the paper, as a                                                          produced educational materials for the Artemis Project and created a website                                                                                        hybrid form (face-to-face and online), which
                                                                                                    part of our efforts to spread our message to various fields                                                                introducing teaching resources from space agencies around the world.                                                                                                contributed to educational activities in
                                                                                                    beyond the aerospace field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    communities.
                        JAXA Symposium 2023 (virtual event)                                         ⚫ Press conferences and press releases
                                                                                                       To provide information on the significance and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Initiatives to Achieve
⚫ Exhibition facilities and                            Facility Tour                                achievements of JAXA projects in a timely manner, we
                                            Facility Tour
    open day to the public                                                                          provide a wide range of opportunities for thorough
   We operate 14 exhibition facilities nationwide. In-person                                        explanation and dialogue to the press and media, such as

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SDGs
special exhibition events at each site were resumed with                                            press releases, press conferences and press briefings.
measures to prevent overcrowding, such as requiring                                                    In FY2023, following the Japanese government’s decision
advance reservations, resulting in a total of over 500,000                                          in May to downgrade COVID-19 to the less severe Category                                                                    Educational support and teaching
visitors over the year.                                                                             5, we began holding press conferences in a hybrid format,                                                                   material development

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Space Strategy Fund
                                                                                                    combining both on-site and online participation. This                                                                           We developed the “Space education materials
                                                                                                    approach enables us to reach media representatives who                                                                      package” series, which can be downloaded and
                                                                                                    may face difficulties attending in person due to distance or                                                                used directly in lessons by elementary and junior


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Projects
                                                                                                    time constraints. Additionally, we broadcasted press                                                                        high school teachers. As part of this initiative, we
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                conducted a trial lesson using the moral education
                                                                                                    conferences and other events live on YouTube, allowing the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                material “Hayabusa2.” We also offer training
                   Usuda Deep Space Center                                                          general public to watch them with minimal delay.
                           special exhibition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                programs for teachers and collaborative lessons.
                                                                                                                                                                      About “JAXA’s”                                                In response to the GIGA School Initiative (i.e.
                                                                                                                                                                                       About “JAXA’s”




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MEXT’s initiative aimed at digitalizing education by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                providing every student with a digital device), JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                has developed and released digital learning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                materials that enable students to study space while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                playing, anytime and anywhere with a PC. These
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                include the “SLIM Game,” which challenges players
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to land on the moon, and the “LUNARCRAFT”
                                                                       A special exhibition venue                                                                                                                               moon-themed metaverse space that can be
                                                                       “Planet Cube” at Tsukuba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                imported into Minecraft.
                                                                       Space Center                                           Information provision through press conferences,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Review Results /
                                                                                                                                     live streaming, and other channels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *ISEB: International Space Education Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            organization
Initiatives to
Achieve SDGs

Basic Action Policies on the Sustainable Development                                                                                                                                                     Efforts to achieve SDGs
                                                                                                                                                                                     Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Top Management
                                                                                                                                                                                               Details

Goals (SDGs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Commitment
   With the revision of the Basic Plan on Space Policy in June 2020 clarifying the contribution to SDGs as one of the space policy                                                                           As a core implementing agency that supports aerospace development and utilization through technology, JAXA is promoting
goals, the environment surrounding SDGs and the aerospace sector has changed significantly. In light of these environmental                                                                              various initiatives that contribute to the achievement of SDGs toward realization of a sustainable, safe, and prosperous society by
changes, JAXA formulated the basic policies on SDGs in March 2022, and newly appointed a Vice President responsible for SDGs                                                                             conducting the pioneering R&D and developing the results, in cooperation with various partners. Some of these initiatives are as
promotion since April 2022, to further accelerate initiatives to achieve SDGs and raise employee awareness.                                                                                              follows:                                                                                                                                         Summary of Phase 4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Medium/Long-Term
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Research and development of technologies                 Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Details
                  JAXA’s SDGs Mission Statement                                                                                                                                                          to improve aircraft fuel efficiency                                                                                                              Plan
                  (Corporate philosophies and social missions related to SDGs concretized into action guidelines)                                                                                        (Aviation Environmental Sustainability Innovation Hub, Aviation Technology Directorate)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Highlights of 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                             The Aviation Environmental Sustainability Innovation Hub focuses on the research and development of riblet technology, aimed at
                   Utilizing the SDGs as a global common language for solving social issues and as an opportunity for innovation, JAXA                                                                   improving environmental performance by reducing aircraft aerodynamic drag. Riblets are an aerodynamic technology that involves
                   will work with various partners to realize a sustainable, safe, and prosperous society by conducting pioneering R&D                                                                   applying microscopic grooves along the surface of an aircraft. By deliberately creating microscopic grooves on the surface of the aircraft,
                   and developing findings.                                                                                                                                                              riblets reduce the surface area exposed to faster airflow, thereby decreasing surface friction drag and improving fuel efficiency. In
                                                                                                                                                                                                         collaboration with Japan Airlines, O-Well, and Nikon, JAXA is conducting flight tests, wind tunnel experiments, and computer simulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                         to evaluate riblet technology.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             The practical application of riblet technology is expected to lead to improved fuel efficiency and a reduction in CO2 emissions. JAXA will

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Management Reform
                    Action                                                                                                                                                                               continue to contribute to the advancement of environmentally friendly aviation technology by applying the outcomes of its research and
                   Guidelines                                                                                                                                                                            development to real-world use.
                  (The above statement is presented from three perspectives of business, individual, and outside the organization,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Review Committee
                  so that it can be more easily understood and lead to action and initiatives)                                                                                                           Creation and expansion of space education opportunities through                                         Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Details

                               Business perspective                          Individual perspective
                                                                                                                                                Perspective outside the                                  the JAXA Academy and digital educational materials
                                                                                                                                                     organization                                        (Space Education Office)
                              Leading R&D                        Bringing out the creativity                                             Working with partners                                               The Space Education Office has established the “JAXA Academy” to provide opportunities for people of all ages to learn about JAXA’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JAXA
                  We solve earth and space issues                    of each individual                                                   around the world                                               initiatives and advancements in science and technology. At the JAXA Academy, experts offer lectures and Q&A sessions on missions and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Introduction of JAXA
                  through leading R&D and                       In addition to utilizing JAXA’s organization,                        By collaborating with diverse stakeholders                          research topics as part of a new STEAM education program, fostering the development of the next generation of talent and providing a
                  development of the results.                   capabilities, and assets, each of us will                            around the world, we will create synergies
                                                                                                                                                                                                         broader perspective on space.
                                                                                                                                     in our projects and maximize the return of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Projects
                                                                exercise our creativity, sympathize with the
                                                                principles of the SDGs, and take action to                           results to society.                                                     We also have developed “LUNACRAFT,” a digital educational tool that can be imported into the metaverse game Minecraft.
                                                                realize them.                                                                                                                            LUNACRAFT incorporates JAXA’s lunar terrain data, allowing users to recreate the lunar environment within the game. With the significant
                                                                                                                                                                                                         attention LUNACRAFT has garnered both domestically and internationally, we plan to conduct demonstrations and assess its

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                         effectiveness in educational settings in 2024.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                         JAXA SDGs Symposium                                                            Details

                                                                                                                                                                                                             In December 2023, we held the JAXA SDGs Symposium.
   High-priority fields for JAXA                                                                                                                              Efforts for Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Professor Norichika Kanie from Keio University, a prominent authority on the SDGs, delivered a
                                                                                                                                                                                                         keynote speech titled “Aerospace and the SDGs: Aerospace’s Role in Achieving SDGs.” JAXA shared a



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Social Involvement
                                                                                                                                                       ~ Expanding areas of human activities
                                                                                                                                                                  sustainably ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                         comprehensive overview of its efforts to contribute to the SDGs, featuring initiatives such as Earth
                                                                                                                                                   [Priority fields]                                     observation satellites for SDG applications, technologies to reduce surface friction drag in passenger
                                                                                                                                                    Taking on challenges in the space
                                                                                                                                                     frontier and returning findings to Earth            aircraft, debris mitigation measures at our Tracking and Communications Center, and sustainability
                                                                                                                                                    Construction of space                               initiatives across its directorates. Private sector participants highlighted their contributions, including
                                                                                                                                                     infrastructure/institutions and rules for
                                                                                                                                                     sustainable space activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                         sustainable practices in small satellite businesses, the development of eco-friendly space mobility using
                                                                                               Efforts for Society
                                                                                   ~ Supporting a sustainable and safe society ~                                                                         water as a propellant, and contribution to SDGs through wood utilization, including applications in space.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JAXA remains committed to working closely with industry, government, and academic institutions to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                              [Priority fields]
                                                                               Management/toughening, and disaster                                                                                      further its contributions toward achieving the SDGs in the aerospace field.
                                                                                prevention of national land, infrastructure
                                                                               Building the infrastructure to support Society
        Efforts for the Global environment                                      5.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SDGs
     ~ Protecting the rich and beautiful global environment ~                  Solving global issues, and achieving
   [Priority fields]                                                            economic growth and innovation                                                                                           From the director responsible
    Contributing to a decarbonized and recycling-                                                                                                                                                       for promoting SDGs
     oriented society

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Space Strategy Fund
    Engaging in research and development of green                                                                                                                                                                                         In March 2022, JAXA formulated a new basic policy on the SDGs in order to further accelerate its
     aerospace systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                  efforts toward the SDGs and raise the awareness of its employees. Based on this policy, we are
    Providing scientific evidence for promoting climate                          Efforts for Governance
     change measures, global environmental                                ~ Organizations that sustainably contribute to society ~                                                                                                      strengthening the dissemination of information through our website, sustainability reports, various

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Projects
     preservation, SDGs, and ESGs
                                                                      [Priority fields]                                                                                                                                                 media and the holding of the "JAXA SDGs Symposium."
                                                                       Promoting fair and responsible                                                                                                                                     In addition, we are advancing various initiatives for each of the priority areas (society, global
                                                                        organizational management and diverse
                                                                        partnerships                                                                                                                                                    environment, space, and governance) set out in the policy. In particular, in the field of earth
                                                                       Creating joy and wonder and developing                                                                                                                          observation using artificial satellites, JAXA's data has been adopted as an SDG indicator (official data)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Third-Party Opinions
                                                                        human resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and is playing a major role in solving global
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Director responsible for     issues such as disaster prevention and climate change. Regarding activities in space, we aim to
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SDGs Promotion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        challenge the space frontier and bring the results back to our society, while promoting the
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Toshiaki Sato                establishment of space infrastructure/systems and rules for sustainable space activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Going forward, JAXA will continue to promote SDG initiatives in space, including the sky, as a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        priority area, and by collaborating with a variety of partners from industry, government and academia,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Details




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        we will create new value for a sustainable society that goes beyond the SDGs.                  Details            Review Results /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          organization
Space Strategy                               Details




                                                       Details
Fund Projects


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Commitment

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Reshaping the future of the next decade with technology,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ideas, and ambition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Summary of Phase 4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                We are eager to discover those raw gems who share this                                 Medium/Long-Term

                                                                                                          Program Director (PD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                vision.                                                                                Plan
                                                                                                          Masayasu Ishida




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Highlights of 2023
                                                                                                                                             The Space                                                          With JAXA’s deep expertise in space development and a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                fund totaling over one trillion yen, let’s work together to


                                                                               As the global space industry undergoes a period of
                                                                            significant transformation, it is crucial for diverse
                                                                                                                                            Strategy Fund                                                       expand the space market, address societal challenges,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and open new frontiers.

                                                                                                                                            program has                                                                                                                                                   Management Reform
   The Basic Plan on Space Policy (approved by the                          communities from industry, academia, and government
Cabinet on June 13, 2023) calls for strengthening                           to collaborate in order to lead the way into the future.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Space is evolving
JAXA’s strategic and flexible funding functions.                            In this context, the Space Strategy Fund is a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Review Committee
Additionally, the Comprehensive Economic Measures
for Overcoming Deflation (approved by the Cabinet
                                                                            groundbreaking program that accelerates technology
                                                                            development by private companies and universities,                  begun.                                                          —becoming a place where more players can join,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and more opportunities arise.
on November 2 of the same year) mandates the                                paving the way for commercialization and the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JAXA
establishment of the Space Strategy Fund at JAXA                            formation of new markets.
for a 10-year period, aimed at swiftly providing a total                       Through this fund, we expect the entire industry to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                By uniting industry, academia, and government, Japan’s
of 1 trillion yen to support the development of                             become more vibrant, with standout players leading                                                                                                                                                                         Introduction of JAXA

advanced space technologies, technical verification,                        the way into a new era. As the Project Director, I will                                                                             space industry can reach even greater heights.
                                                                            oversee the entire program based on the fund’s overall                                                                                                                                                                     Projects
and commercialization by private companies,                                                                                                                                                                     JAXA wants to be a tailwind that drives this progress.
universities, and other organizations over multiple                         goals, basic policies, and implementation strategies,
                                                                            bringing together the wisdom and passion of many
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Involvement in the
years.
                                                                            people. We eagerly await your passionate
   The Space Strategy Fund was established at JAXA                                                                                                                                                              Let’s take the leap into space.
                                                                            applications.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Environment
on March 28, 2024, following the passage of
necessary related laws and the supplementary
budget draft for the fiscal year 2023 by the Diet.
Subsequently, the government announced the Basic



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Social Involvement
Policy and Implementation Policy for the Space
Strategy Fund* on April 26, 2024. Based on these
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Scheme Overview
policies, JAXA prepared for the implementation by
                                                                                                          Director of Space Strategy Fund
establishing a business management system and
                                                                                                          Department
developing relevant regulations. Following the launch                                                                                                             METI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JAXA                                              Private companies, startup
of the Space Strategy Fund Department on July 1 of
                                                                                                          Satoru Naiki                       Cabinet Office                   Establishment of
                                                                                                                                                                                  the fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Call for proposals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and selection         companies, universities,
                                                                                                                                                                                 Basic Policy


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Contracting and
the same year, JAXA began receiving applications for                                                                                             MEXT                 MIC      Implementation                                                grant allocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   national institutes and other
                                                                                                                                                                                   Policy
technology development themes funded by the fiscal
2023 supplementary budget.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SDGs
   JAXA ensures rigorous and fair evaluations by                                                                                                          Space                        Goals for technical development support
establishing a third-party review organization                                 For JAXA, implementing the government’s critical                       transportation
                                                                                                                                                                                         Expanding the space      Support for technological development aimed at creating space-related markets
composed of external experts. Additionally, we                              policy, the Space Strategy Fund, in its new role as a                                                              market             and strengthening competitiveness in the market
                                                                                                                                                      Three support

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Space Strategy
leverage our own advanced expertise and specialized                         funding allocation agency represents a significant                            areas                           Solving global and      Support for technological development aimed at creating societal benefits and
                                                                                                                                                                                            social issues         other related objectives
experience in technology development management,                            challenge. Since the announcement of the Basic Policy                               Space
                                                                                                                                                Satellites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fund Projects
including the exploration of new technology                                 and Implementation Policy, JAXA has been working                                  exploration                 Pioneering frontier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Support for research and development that leads to the creation of innovative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  future technologies
development elements. As an organization that                               diligently to prepare for the new scheme by
allocates funds in the space sector, JAXA will serve                        establishing an operational framework and developing
as a central hub for technology development and                             relevant regulations, with the support of a wide range
                                                                            of stakeholders. As we reach this starting point, we



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Third-Party Opinions
verification, human resources, and technical
                                                                            would like to once again express our sincere gratitude
information both domestically and internationally, and
                                                                            to everyone involved.                                                                                                3 goals for the entire scheme
manage this project by leveraging the combined
                                                                               We believe that the Space Strategy Fund represents
strengths of Japan’s industry, academia, and                                                                                                    Expanding the space market                         Contribute to solving global and                             Deeper exploration of knowledge of
                                                                            a groundbreaking initiative with the potential to be a                                                                                                                              the universe, and stronger basic and
government.                                                                                                                                     (from 4T JPY to 8T JPY in the early                social issues by utilizing space
                                                                            game-changer for Japan’s space development, and                     2030s)                                                                                                          fundamental technologies
                                                                            are committed to fulfilling our role in making it a
* The Basic Policy outlines the institutional design for the overall fund                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Review Results /
  project, stating that “by having private companies and universities,      success. We sincerely hope that many entities will
  rather than JAXA, take the lead, more effective promotion of              consider applying for and utilizing this fund.                                                                                                                                                                             Information about
  technological development can be achieved.” Meanwhile, the
  Implementation Policy specifies the objectives and concrete details of                                                                                                                                                                                                                               organization
  each technological development theme.
Third-Party
Opinions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Commitment




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Summary of Phase 4
                                                  The “Space Strategy Fund,” with a total of 1 trillion yen over 10 years, has                                                      FY2024 marks a significant milestone for JAXA. It is the final year of the Phase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Medium/Long-Term
                                               been established within JAXA. This fund supports private companies                                                                4 Medium/Long-Term Plan, and the year when JAXA began its operations as an
                                               including startups and universities in their technology development efforts                                                       “organization that allocates funds in the space sector,” aiming to swiftly provide
                                               across three fields—“Space transportation,” “Satellites” and “Space                                                               support with a total fund of 1 trillion yen. This is in addition to its existing role as   Plan

                                               exploration”—with the aim of achieving three key goals: “Expanding the                                                            the “core implementing agency to support the Japanese government’s overall
                                               space market,” “Solving global and social issues” and “Pioneering frontier.”                                                      aerospace development and utilization.” As JAXA’s social responsibilities


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Highlights of 2023
                                               As a key funding allocation agency for space-related projects, JAXA’s role is                                                     continue to grow, the significance of the 19th Sustainability Report becomes
                                               of great significance and is drawing increasing attention.                                                                        even more pronounced.
                                                  The “Highlights of 2023” section of this report showcases numerous                                                                To ensure stable progress in national space research and development, broad
                                               achievements, including the successful pinpoint lunar landing of the Smart                                                        public understanding and support are essential. Therefore, this report itself is a
                                               Lander for Investigating Moon (SLIM) with an unprecedented accuracy of                                                            valuable opportunity to gain public understanding. In fact, one can see various
                                                                                                                                                                                 efforts toward that objective in this report. For example, the section “Involvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Management Reform
                                               under 100 meters. Following this, the report addresses the “Management
                                               Reform Review Committee,” underscoring JAXA’s commitment to                                                                       in the Environment” presents JAXA’s satellite data analysis results contributing to
                                               organizational reform. The Committee was established in September 2023 as                                                         global environmental protection and the improvement of local environments in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Review Committee
                                               part of measures to prevent recurrence following the failure of the first H3                                                      Japan. This latest report adds an analysis result of crust/ground deformation
                                               rocket test vehicle and Epsilon Rocket No. 6 launches in FY2022, as well as                                                       caused by the Noto Peninsula Earthquake (p.15). Along with the achievements of
    Kimiharu Saita                             a case of non-compliance with ethical guidelines for medical research. This             Setsuko Aoki                              “Daichi-2,” this report presents information about the advanced radar satellite
                                                                                                                                                                                 “Daichi-4,” which was launched in July aboard the eagerly awaited third H3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JAXA
                                               section includes key points of discussions in the Management Reform
                                               Review Committee. According to this, the management challenges have                                                               rocket test vehicle, demonstrating how space technology is safeguarding the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Introduction of JAXA
                                               been categorized into the following groups: “management/governance,”                                                              lives, safety, and security of the Japanese people. The table showing JAXA’s
[Short Biography]                                                                                                                [Short Biography]                               energy consumption (input) and the volume of environmental loads generated
                                               “human resources,” “organization,” “technology,” and “industrial infrastructure
He majored in marine meteorology at                                                                                              Professor, Keio University Law School           (output) is particularly easy to understand this year, with a schematic diagram of         Projects
                                               for aerospace.” It was recognized that the common underlying factor in these
Hokkaido University and became a                                                                                                 Specialized in international and space laws.    JAXA’s activities included in between (p.20-21). While it may be challenging to
                                               challenges is that top management has not strengthened human resources in
certified weather forecaster while a student                                                                                     Deputy Director of Keio Advanced Research
                                                                                                                                                                                 balance the enhancement of its activities with the reduction of environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Involvement in the
there. After working as a journalist, he has
                                               line with the expansion of roles and projects. Forty-one action plans have        Center for Space Law. She is grateful every
                                               been created, including the establishment of the Human Resource and                                                               loads, JAXA has been making every effort, as evidenced by the emission trends
worked as a weather forecaster for NHK                                                                                           day that many of her students, who
                                               Organizational Development Steering Committee, which quickly addresses                                                            for each category over the past five years, detailed on page 22. Looking at the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Environment
since 2006. He currently appears on                                                                                              completed the specialized course in space
”News Watch 9.” As the representative          organization-wide challenges by incorporating the concept of human capital        law, are actively contributing space industry   long-term data, paper consumption has reduced by approximately 85%, from
director of Himmel Consulting Co., Ltd.,       management and aligning business strategy with talent strategy. These             in Japan and globally.                          121.1 tons in FY2005 (p.34 in the FY2007 report) to 19 tons in FY2023. This
space weather project manager of ABLab         statements highlight the growing attention on the upcoming reforms.                                                               demonstrates JAXA’s ongoing efforts to minimize its environmental loads as
General Incorporated Association, and             In the “Involvement in the Environment” section, the response to the 2024                                                      much as possible.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Social Involvement
chairman of the Outreach Subcommittee of       Noto Peninsula Earthquake stands out. By analyzing observational data from                                                           This report is highly effective with its clear numbers, tables, and graphs.
the Space Weather Users Council, he is                                                                                                                                           Readers seeking detailed explanations can access further information on the
                                               “Daichi-2” before and after the earthquake, crustal and ground displacement
promoting efforts in preparing for new                                                                                                                                           relevant website. I found the “Details” linking guide in this year’s report
                                               were measured for estimated building damage. In extreme situations where
disasters.
                                               relief teams are unable to enter disaster-stricken areas, using space-based                                                       particularly helpful for understanding the premises, systems, and processes
                                               observations to assess damage and applying this information to support                                                            behind JAXA’s efforts within Japan’s ESG (Environmental, Social, and
                                               recovery efforts is expected to offer various benefits, including time saving.                                                    Governance) framework.
                                               Another notable initiative involves deploying LiDAR equipment on the                                                                 The actual numbers make it clear that JAXA is committed to fostering                       Initiatives to Achieve
                                               International Space Station (ISS). This enables 3D forest observation from                                                        individual expertise and maintaining a fair and equitable work environment, as

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SDGs
                                               space, capturing highly accurate topographical data, which is expected to                                                         evidenced by the high employee retention rate of 97% three years after joining.
                                               contribute to climate change mitigation and biodiversity research, and                                                            The “Management Reform Review Committee’s Report: Maximizing the Value of
                                               deserves greater public recognition.                                                                                              People and Making the Organization Evolve Even Stronger” mentioned in the top
                                                  In the “Social Involvement” section, the report highlights measures to                                                         commitment is fully available on the website. The published report openly
                                               prevent misconduct in research and appropriate management of research                                                             includes voices from the internal social media platform, highlighting concerns                Space Strategy Fund

                                               funds providing links to related websites for further information. JAXA’s                                                         about a culture where the person suggested idea must take responsibility of its

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Projects
                                               efforts to improve work-life balance (WLB) are also noteworthy, as                                                                implementation, and recognition is given only to those who launch. I believe that
                                               exemplified by the formulation of “Unified Action Plan of the Act for Measures                                                    the transparency and willingness to drive future action plans are the very
                                               to Support the Development of the Next Generation and the Act on the                                                              qualities that strengthen an organization.
                                               Promotion of Women’s Active Engagement in Professional Life” in April 2023.                                                          One area for improvement in this report includes the section “Introduction of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Third-Party Opinions
                                                  To enhance the international competitiveness of Japan’s space industry,                                                        JAXA Projects” (p.10–13). Perhaps reflecting the realism of “space being a realm
                                               strengthening collaboration between industry, academia, and government is                                                         of darkness,” the background features dark colors, which made the descriptions
                                               essential. There are high expectations for JAXA to play a central role as a                                                       of rockets and satellites somewhat difficult to read. Whether viewed on a screen
                                               hub in fostering this collaboration.                                                                                              or in print, the text appears faint, which is a challenge for those with presbyopia.
                                                                                                                                                                                 Enhancing readability in this section would be greatly appreciated.
                                                                                                                                                                                    Finally, I look forward to seeing the section on ”Involvement in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Review Results /
                                                                                                                                                                                 Environment” include the number of debris removed this year and information on
                                                                                                                                                                                 JAXA satellites that achieved significant results.                                         Information about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            organization
                                                                                                                                                                Information
Review                                                                                                                                                          about
Results                                                                                                                                                         organization


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top Management



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Commitment


To Enhance the Reliability of This Report                                                                                                                           About JAXA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Summary of Phase 4
  In order to enhance the reliability of the “Sustainability Report 2024” (hereinafter referred to as “this report”), the Japan
Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) utilized a checklist and an internal audit system to evaluate the activity reports of all                                     Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA),
divisions in accordance with the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines” issued by the Ministry of the Environment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Medium/Long-Term
                                                                                                                                                                  a national research and development agency
                                                                                                                                                                  Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Organization Chart                                                                                                                                                                As of March 31, 2024
                                        Using the Self-assessment Guide for Enhancing the Credibility of Environmental Reports as a reference, we used a
                                                                                                                                                                   Headquarters 7-44-1 Jindaiji-Higashimachi, Chofu City, Tokyo
                            checklist to check that the information (numerical data, etc.) and descriptions about environmental load contained in this                           Phone: +81-422-40-3000 FAX: +81-422-40-3281




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Highlights of 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          President
                            report comply with the Environmental Reporting Guidelines.                                                                             Establishment An Incorporated Administrative Agency, the Japan                                                                                                                                                   Senior Vice President
                                                                                                                                                                    (History)     Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) was established                                                                                                                                                   Vice President
                                                                                                                                                                                  in October 2003 in accordance with the Act on the Japan
                                           September 2024                                                                                                                         Aerospace Exploration Agency, Incorporated
                                           Head of Safety and Mission              Masaaki Mokuno                                                                                 Administrative Agency (Act No.161 of December 13,
                                                                                                                                                                                  2002), merging three aerospace organizations, the MEXT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Auditor

                                           Assurance Department                                                                                                                   Institute of Space and Astronautical Science (ISAS), the                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mission support departments
                                                                                                                                                                                  National Aerospace Laboratory (NAL), and the National                                                                 General administrative departments


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Management Reform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (such as Safety and Mission Assurance
                                                                                                                                                                                  Space Development Agency of Japan (NASDA). It                                                                           (Strategic Planning and Management
                                        In order to ensure the reliability of the information (numerical data, excluding those on papers) about environmental                     became a National Research and Development Agency                                                                      Department, General Affairs Department,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Department, Security and Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Systems Department, Ground Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Human Resources Department,
                       load contained in this report, we conducted audits of the following business sites out of all JAXA’s business sites                                        in April 2015.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Procurement Department, etc.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Department, Environmental Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technology Unit)
                       between May and June 2024 to verify the consistency of the source documents and business forms with the numerical                           President                Hiroshi Yamakawa

                       data in this report, and checked that there were no problems.                                                                               Number of                One senior vice president, seven vice presidents, two                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Review Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Human Spaceflight   Research and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Institute of Space and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JAXA Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Space Technology                                                                                                                                                  Space Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Space Transportation                                                                                             Aviation Technology                Space Exploration
                                                                                                                                                                    directors                general auditors
                          •              Earth Observation Center
                                                                                                                                                                   Number of                1,597 (as of March 31, 2024)                                                                                                                                                       Development                                                                                           Exploration
                          •              Sagamihara Campus (including Akiruno Branch)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Astronautical Science                                                                                                           JAXA
                                                                                                                                                                    employees                (Number of permanent employees)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Directorate                                                                                       Center (JSEC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Directorate I                                                                                                                                                     Directorate II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Directorate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Technology Directorate                                                                                                                           Innovation Hub Center
                                           September 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Directorate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (ISAS)                                                                                                          Introduction of JAXA
                                           Head of Evaluation and Audit            Yasuhiko Ozeki                                                                     Details




                                                                                                                                                                                  Details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Projects
                                           Department

                                                                                                                                                                  Personnel-related data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Involvement in the
   Details: Self-assessment Checklist




                      Details: Self-assessment Checklist                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Unit                FY2019                                            FY2020                              FY2021                                             FY2022                                          FY2023
                                                                                                                                                                   Number of employees                                                                                                people                1,554                                             1,562                               1,589                                              1,586                                           1,597
                                                                                                                                                                   Average number of days of paid leave taken                                                                          days                        13.5                                         11.13                               11.9                                                 12.5                                        13.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Environment
                                                                                                                                                                   Number of employees taking childcare leave                                                                         people                        56                                            59                                 53                                                   63                                          75
[Editor’s Note]                                                                                                                                                    Number of employees taking sick/injured childcare leave                                                            people                       190                                           135                                167                                                  133                                         214
   Thank you for reading “JAXA’s Sustainability Report 2024.”                                                                                                      Percentage of female managers                                                                                        %                          10.2                                          10.5                               10.9                                                 11.2                                        11.4
   In creating the cover illustration for this report, we focused on the themes of “transformation” and “leap forward.” In response to repeated                    Percentage of disabled employees                                                                                     %                          2.65                                          2.66                               2.52                                                  2.4                                         2.6
                                                                                                                                                                   Number of compliance hotline calls                                                                                 cases                         45                                            25                                 32                                                   31                                          43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Social Involvement
incidents, including the rocket launch failure and research non-compliance cases in FY2023, JAXA has engaged in earnest self-reflection.                           Use of the whistleblowing system                                                                                   cases                          1                                             0                                  0                                                    1                                           0
This effort led to the establishment of the Management Reform Review Committee, tasked with transforming the organization into a stronger                                                                    Accidents during work                                                    cases                         12                                             7                                 13                                                    6                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                   Work-related accidents*
entity. The committee has developed a comprehensive set of improvement measures, including initiatives aimed at reforming the                                                                                Accidents during commuting                                               cases                          2                                             3                                  1                                                    5                                           2

organizational mindset. By steadily implementing these measures, JAXA strives to drive the evolution of its people and organization, paving                       *The number of work-related accidents occurring to employees of subcontractors is also included.

the way for a future where Japan’s aerospace development achieves significant advancements.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [Corporate Unit] Summary of Profit and
   This report describes how JAXA’s aerospace business contributes to various environmental and social issues. Further information is also                       [Corporate Unit] Summary of Balance Sheet for FY2023                                                                                                                                    (Unit: million yen)                    Loss Statement for FY2023 (Unit: million yen)
posted on JAXA’s official website, so please take a look. We would greatly appreciate your cooperation in completing the survey.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Initiatives to Achieve
                                                                                                                                                                                           Assets                                                                                                   Liabilities                                                                                                           Classification of profit and loss
                                                                                                                                                                    I Current assets                                       694,118            I                 Current liabilities                                                                            374,466                            Ordinary expense                                                                                    289,901
[Scope of the Report, etc.]
                                                                                                                                                                    II Fixed assets                                                           II                   Fixed liabilities                                                                           618,108                            Ordinary income                                                                                     267,181
Scope: All business sites except overseas                                                                                                                               1 Property, plant and                                                                           Total liabilities                                                                      992,574                            Extraordinary loss                                                                                      16,957

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SDGs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           372,449
                                                                                                                                                                           equipment
Period: April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024 (including some data after this period)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Extraordinary profit                                                                                    17,151
                                                                                                                                                                        2 Intangible fixed assets                            7,723
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Net assets                                                                                                                    net loss before tax                                                                                     22,526
Referenced guideline: “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018” issued by the Ministry of the Environment, “ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on                                         3 Investments and other assets              21,831
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I Capital                                                                                                       544,250                             Corporate income tax, corporate
Social Responsibility” issued by the Japanese Standards Association (General Incorporated Foundation)                                                                           Total fixed assets                         402,003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II Capital surplus                                                                                            (410,354)                             residents’ tax and enterprise tax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Space Strategy Fund
Improvement of reliability: Conducting an Internal Assessment to Improve the Reliability of this Report Rounding of numbers                                                                                                                   III Loss carried forward                                                                                         30,347                             Net loss                                                                                                22,551
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total net assets                                                                                            103,548                             Total loss                                                                                              22,551
Rounding of numerical figures: Decimal places are rounded to the nearest whole number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total liabilities and net assets                                                                              1,096,122
                                                                                                                                                                    Sum of liabilities and net assets                    1,096,122
[Copyright]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Projects
The illustrations, photographs, and other materials contained in this report are copyright JAXA, unless otherwise noted.
                                                                                                                                                                 [Corporate Unit] Budget and                                              Click here for financial statements, etc.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Click here for financial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      statements, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                 Results for FY2023                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (Unit: million yen)

[Publication]                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FY2023                                                    FY2024                                                                                                                                                    FY2023                                       FY2024
                                                                                                                                                                                            Classification                                                                                                                                                        Classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Plan                         Actual                               Plan                                                                                                                                              Plan                            Actual                Plan
September 2024 (Vol. 19)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Third-Party Opinions
                                                                                                                                                                    Income                                                                                                                                                        Expenses
Editor in chief: Masaaki Mokuno, Head of Safety and Mission Assurance Department                                                                                       Subsidy for operation                                 164,604                     164,604                               122,398                              General and administrative expenses                                                                     4,976                                   4,980               6,087
Issue of the next report: September 2025                                                                                                                               Subsidy for facility improvement                        8,776                       9,482                                 6,146                              Business expenses                                                                                     160,727                                 153,214             147,397
                                                                                                                                                                       Subsidy for the ISS development                        25,175                      26,704                                16,916                              Expended subsidy for facility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8,776                            9,366                     6,146
                                                                                                                                                                       Subsidy for R&D on earth observation                                                                                                                         improvement
[Contact]                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5,891                                    5,887                   6,075                              Expended subsidy for the ISS
                                                                                                                                                                       systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25,175                           26,645                16,916
Green Management/Operation Division, Safety and Mission Assurance Department                                                                                           Subsidy for promotion of advanced core
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,006                                    9,370                   3,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    development
                                                                                                                                                                       rocket technology                                                                                                                                            Expended subsidy for R&D on earth
Tsukuba Space Center, 2-1-1 Sengen, Tsukuba City, Ibaraki, 305-8505, Japan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          observation systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5,891                            5,677                     6,075
                                                                                                                                                                       Subsidy for space development support                 300,000                     300,000                                    ─
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Review Results /
E-Mail:JAXA-SR@ml.jaxa.jp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Expended subsidy for promotion of
                                                                                                                                                                        Commission income                                     31,255                      86,100                                33,078                                                                                                                                            11,006                            9,369                     3,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    advanced core rocket technology
                                                                                                                                                                        Other income                                           1,090                       1,396                                 1,090                              Commission expenses                                                                                           31,255                           80,658                33,078
                                                                                                                                                                        Total                                                547,797                     603,543                               188,945                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Information about
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total                                                                                                 247,805                                 289,909             218,941
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 organization
Sustainability Report 2024
  Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency
