                           NASA OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                                             SUITE 8U71, 300 E ST SW
                                           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20546-0001



                                                        February 1, 2024




The Honorable Jeanne Shaheen                                        The Honorable Jerry Moran
Chairwoman                                                          Ranking Member
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science,                         Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science,
  and Related Agencies                                                and Related Agencies
Committee on Appropriations                                         Committee on Appropriations
United States Senate                                                United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510                                                Washington, DC 20510

The Honorable Harold Rogers                                         The Honorable Matthew Cartwright
Chairman                                                            Ranking Member
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science,                         Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science,
  and Related Agencies                                                and Related Agencies
Committee on Appropriations                                         Committee on Appropriations
U.S. House of Representatives                                       U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, DC 20515                                                Washington, DC 20515

Subject: NASA’s Compliance with Federal Export Control Laws (IG-24-007)

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act of 2000 directs the NASA
Office of Inspector General (OIG) to annually assess the Agency’s compliance with federal export control
laws and reporting requirements regarding cooperative agreements between NASA and China or any
Chinese company. 1

We last reported to you on these issues in February 2023. Since then, NASA has not established any
new bilateral agreements with China. NASA has continued its work with the Chinese Academy of
Sciences on bilateral science activities relating to space geodesy and glacier research in the Himalaya
Region. 2 In June 2021, NASA began to exchange limited information with the China National Space
Administration (CNSA) to ensure the safety of NASA’s robotic Mars science missions and international

1   Pub. L. No. 106-391, codified at 51 U.S.C. § 30701(a)(3).
2   Space geodesy uses space-based observations to monitor, map, and understand changes in the Earth’s shape, rotation, and
    mass distribution.
partners’ missions in orbit around Mars. NASA anticipates these discussions will continue for the life of
the Tianwen-1 mission. 3 Additionally, according to Agency officials, in November 2023 NASA permitted
NASA-funded scientists to apply for access to CNSA’s Chang’e-5 lunar samples. 4 As of January 2024,
discussions are ongoing within the Agency regarding terms for the exchange of the samples and the
process for engaging with CNSA. For each of these activities, the Agency made the appropriate
notifications in accordance with the requirements outlined in Public Law 116-260. 5

With regard to export control-related oversight work conducted by our office, during the past year we
completed one audit related to NASA’s partnerships with international space agencies for the Artemis
campaign and three audits that examined NASA’s controls over sensitive information and information
technology (IT) assets and security systems, many of which contain data subject to export control laws.
We also initiated two new audits related to IT security. In addition, our Office of Investigations closed
nine investigations related to inappropriate associations with China and the unauthorized access to
export-controlled information. Furthermore, we are an active member of the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security’s Export Enforcement Coordination Center (E2C2). The E2C2 coordinates export
enforcement efforts and intelligence sharing activities among federal agencies to identify and resolve
conflicts involving violations of U.S. export control laws.

We summarize our 2023 export control and IT security systems audits and investigations below.



                                   AUDIT REPORTS ISSUED
NASA’s Partnerships with International Space Agencies for the Artemis Campaign
(IG-23-004, January 17, 2023)
NASA’s Artemis campaign is working toward landing humans on the Moon in 2025 with the ultimate
goal of crewed missions to Mars in the 2030s. Additional objectives include robotic and scientific
missions to the lunar surface, establishing an orbiting lunar outpost known as Gateway, and developing
a base camp with lunar rovers on the Moon. Achieving these ambitious objectives is both technically
challenging and enormously expensive, with NASA’s financial contributions to Artemis projected to cost
$93 billion between fiscal years 2012 and 2025. Consequently, NASA officials have stated that
partnerships with international space agencies are critical to achieving the Artemis campaign’s goals.
The Artemis Accords—signed by 23 countries over the last 2 years—illustrate wide international interest
in space exploration as they seek to establish principles for cooperation among civil space agencies and
governance on increasing the safety of operations, reducing uncertainty, and promoting the sustainable
and beneficial use of space.



3   Tianwen-1 is an interplanetary mission by the China National Space Administration that launched in July 2020 and landed a
    rover on Mars in May 2021.
4   In December 2020, China’s Chang’e-5 lunar mission returned to Earth after retrieving lunar rocks and soil.
5   Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, Pub. L. No. 116-260 (2020) requires NASA to certify to the Senate and House
    committees on appropriations and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) no later than 30 days prior to the event that the
    activities pose no risk of a transfer of technology, data, or other information with national security or economic security
    implications and that the activities will not involve knowing interactions with officials who have been determined to have
    direct involvement with violations of human rights.



                                                                 2
Key early Artemis commitments from the Canadian Space Agency, European Space Agency, and Japan
Aerospace Exploration Agency include the provision of a Gateway habitat, communications satellites,
spacecraft service modules, external robotics, astronauts, and lunar rovers. NASA is leaning into 30
years of experience working with a variety of international partners on the International Space Station
(ISS) by establishing long-term Artemis commitments from many of the same partners, but international
cooperation for Artemis may be hindered by fluctuating political guidance, uncertain budgets, and
restrictive policies concerning the control of mission-related information both in the United States and
abroad. In this audit we evaluated (1) NASA’s plans to coordinate and integrate international partner
contributions with its Artemis efforts, (2) impediments NASA faces when partnering with international
space agencies, and (3) the cost implications of working with partner space agencies.

Interest in the Artemis campaign is high across the international space community, as evidenced by
NASA’s 54 Artemis-related international instruments and the 23 signatories to the Artemis Accords.
However, the Agency lacks an overarching strategy to coordinate Artemis contributions from
international space agencies and entities. Except for the Gateway Program, the Artemis campaign lacks
comprehensive forums—boards, panels, and working groups— for its international partners to routinely
discuss topics such as flight and mission planning, safety, and research integration. In contrast, the ISS
Program—seen as a model of long-term international space cooperation—employs these forums as well
as on-site representation from partner agencies. While the blueprint for the first three Artemis missions
is well established, NASA lacks an overall blueprint beyond Artemis IV for lunar exploration of the Moon
that includes estimated costs and the responsibilities of its international partners. In May 2022, NASA
took steps to develop a “blueprint for sustained human presence throughout the solar system,” but it is
too early to tell if these efforts will clarify the potential funding, roles, and responsibilities required of
international partners participating in the Artemis campaign. Additionally, current Artemis agreements
are pursued bilaterally with interested parties, without an overall cooperative framework that addresses
the legal structure, program development, or partner roles and responsibilities.

U.S. export control regulations of defense articles and commercial items—governed by rules known as
the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and Export Administration Regulations (EAR)—are
designed to protect U.S. national interests and intellectual property. However, they can be overly
complex and restrictive, and their implementation in international agreements, policies, and space flight
system classification routinely limit NASA’s international collaborations on Artemis. For example,
international agreements do not allow the use of partner astronauts or sharing information with them
during the periods prior to and after conclusion of a mission. In addition, unlike the ISS, the Artemis
campaign lacks a unique EAR classification of specific space flight items or consistent jurisdiction and
classification of Artemis elements, such as the Orion spacecraft, that would simplify the timely exchange
of space flight items and technical information with international partners.

With costs for the Artemis campaign likely to reach hundreds of billions of dollars over the next two
decades, NASA is trying to make its Moon to Mars plans more sustainable by sharing costs with its
international partners. Partners are helping to defray costs by providing a capability—such as space
flight hardware and related operations, robotics, or enhanced lunar communication—with the value for
that capability determined at the outset of the agreement, rather than allocating a specific percentage
of costs to each partner or creating an ongoing obligation to include partner astronauts on future
missions. Our analysis showed that uncrewed and robotic space flight projects in which NASA works
with international partners have, on average, experienced less cost growth despite higher levels of
complexity. NASA’s international partners use trade studies to understand potential costs and technical



                                                      3
requirements early in a project, allowing for use of firm-fixed-price contracts that aid in controlling
project costs. Given NASA’s deep space ambitions and current budget profile, the Agency will be unable
to achieve its long-term Artemis objectives without effectively incorporating international partner
cost-management strategies.

We made 10 recommendations to increase the effectiveness and affordability of Artemis integration
efforts with international partners; NASA concurred with nine, one is now closed, and the Agency is
planning to implement corrective action for the others by March 2024. The Agency non-concurred with
one recommendation, and it remains unresolved pending further discussions.

To view the full report, visit NASA’s Partnerships with International Space Agencies for the Artemis
Campaign.

NASA’s Software Asset Management (IG-23-008, January 12, 2023)
NASA uses thousands of unique software products from hundreds of vendors in its efforts to advance
science, technology, aeronautics, Earth studies, and space exploration. Each software application and
program comes with a license—a contract between the entity creating or supplying the software and
the end user—governing its use. Managing software licensing is deceptively complex due to the sheer
volume of software vendors and applications, yet it is crucial to effectively secure NASA operations and
track tens of millions of dollars in license fees. Software asset management is the business practice that
administers the processes, policies, and procedures that support the software life cycle of planning,
acquisition, use, management, and disposal.

Effective software asset management helps reduce IT costs and mitigate operational, cybersecurity, and
financial risks related to software ownership and use. NASA’s software portfolio consists of purchased
software programs subject to varying types of licenses as well as internally developed mission and
institutional software applications that are not licensed by the Agency. Purchased software must be
used in accordance with the terms of its license with potential financial penalties if vendor audits find
violations of license agreements. Internally developed software also needs to be tracked to identify
duplicate or obsolete applications.

In this audit, we assessed whether NASA is managing its software assets in an effective and efficient
manner while maintaining compliance with applicable requirements and security best practices.

Software asset management practices at NASA currently expose the Agency to operational, financial,
and cybersecurity risks with management of the software life cycle largely decentralized and ad hoc.
Efforts to implement an enterprise-wide software asset management program have been hindered by
both budget and staffing issues and the complexity and volume of the Agency’s software licensing
agreements. We rated NASA’s software asset management as “basic”— the lowest of the four rating
options in the Software Asset Management Maturity and Optimization Model developed by Microsoft
and adopted from the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical
Commission. Consequently, NASA is likely years away from moving to an enterprise computing model in
which IT capabilities, such as software asset management and cybersecurity, are centralized and
consolidated. In the meantime, the Agency has yet to embrace key best practices or fully implement
federal guidance required to appropriately manage its software asset management program.




                                                    4
NASA has not implemented a centralized software asset management tool to discover, inventory, and
track license data as required by federal policy. This shortcoming has resulted in NASA spending
approximately $15 million over the past 5 years on unused licenses, an amount we found wasteful and
therefore questioned. We also found internally developed mission and institutional software
applications suffer from a lack of centralization and inventory visibility, limiting the Agency’s ability to
identify duplicative or obsolete software. NASA’s software asset management policy is not
comprehensive or standardized, leaving roles, responsibilities, and processes unclear. In addition, the
Agency’s Software Asset Management Office and Software Manager positions are misaligned and do not
report to the Chief Information Officer as required by federal policy. The Agency also does not have
consistent processes for legal representation during software contract negotiations and vendor audits,
which can expose the Agency to increased costs because of penalties for violations of software license
agreements. Furthermore, training for software license use and management is inconsistent across the
Agency, with aging web-based training randomly assigned and a lack of general software licensing
training available to the entire workforce.

NASA has failed to implement processes necessary to manage financial risks as software purchases are
not sufficiently tracked and authorized by the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)—allowing
some users to bypass OCIO authorization (and Software Asset Management team scrutiny) to purchase
software through alternative means such as purchase cards. Moreover, NASA’s current efforts to
compile a complete and accurate report of annual software spending is a time consuming and mostly
manual effort. Given these shortcomings, NASA has historically experienced a large influx of software
into its network environment that is not sufficiently tracked for license compliance, resulting in more
than $20 million unnecessarily spent on software fines and penalties over the last 5 years. We estimate
the Agency could have saved approximately $35 million ($20 million in fines and overpayments and $15
million in unused licenses) and, moving forward, could save $4 million over the next 3 years by
implementing an enterprise-wide software asset management program.

Lastly, NASA has not implemented the enterprise-wide processes necessary to appropriately manage
software asset management cybersecurity risks. Software downloaded with privileged access is not
tracked for license compliance and life-cycle management, and NASA does not have a consistent,
Agency-wide process for giving users only the software permissions necessary for their job. This
deviation from best practices is a cybersecurity risk because software deployed within the Agency raises
both cybersecurity and software license compliance risks.

We made nine recommendations to strengthen operational and cyber aspects of software asset
management; the Agency concurred or partially concurred with all of them. Four of the nine
recommendations are now closed, and the Agency plans to implement corrective action for four of the
remaining by October 2024. Corrective action for the final recommendation is planned to be completed
by October 2027.

To view the full report, visit NASA’s Software Asset Management.

NASA’s Management of Its Artificial Intelligence Capabilities (IG-23-012, May 3, 2023)
Artificial intelligence (AI) is generally thought of as the capability of a machine to imitate intelligent
human behavior. Aspects of this technology are used in a wide variety of applications from medical
devices to autonomous vehicles, with tools like ChatGPT capable of mimicking human thought
processes. NASA is a leader in AI usage and innovation across government, with applications such as a


                                                     5
storm prediction tool that uses image recognition technology to identify atmospheric conditions to
provide early warnings for destructive hailstorms and space vehicles such as the Mars Perseverance
rover that uses an autonomous navigation system. While NASA and other federal agencies are
continually exploring ways to incorporate AI into their organizations to meet agency goals, its adoption
across such a wide spectrum of disciplines raises challenges for regulating and managing risks such as
cybersecurity threats and drives the need for more detailed federal governance.

To that end, in February 2019 the White House issued Executive Order (EO) 13859 to promote sustained
investment in AI research and development to generate technological breakthroughs while bolstering
the requirement for AI developers to minimize vulnerability to attacks from malicious actors and reflect
federal priorities for innovation, public trust, and public confidence in AI systems. Similarly, EO 13960,
issued in December 2020, seeks to promote the continued expansion of AI research and development in
the United States while introducing measurable requirements to promote transparency and
trustworthiness. Although these EOs establish baseline principles for agencies to adopt into their AI
governance policies and practices, AI standards remain in their infancy across the federal government.

In this audit we examined NASA’s progress in developing its AI governance framework and standards
and assessed whether security controls are being considered and implemented to protect AI data and
technologies from cyber threats.

NASA has made progress in establishing an AI framework through development of the NASA Framework
for the Ethical Use of Artificial Intelligence in April 2021, which drew upon the principles of leading AI
organizations to guide consideration of ethics for AI projects and provide initial recommendations for
NASA governance, advice related to AI, and questions for AI practitioners to consider during their work.
Additionally, development of NASA’s Responsible AI Plan in September 2022 identified NASA’s
responsible AI officials and outlined how NASA intends to implement requirements of EO 13960,
including capturing and reporting use-case inventories, establishing oversight of AI projects to ensure
continuous monitoring efforts, and engaging the AI community on the Agency’s ethical AI standards and
how to implement them.

However, NASA has not adopted a standard definition of AI and instead has three separate definitions:
one in the NASA Framework for the Ethical Use of Artificial Intelligence, one in NASA’s Responsible AI
Plan that utilizes the definition found within EO 13960, and one on NASA’s internal Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning SharePoint collaboration website. While all three definitions are similar, subtleties
and nuances in each can alter whether a particular technology is properly considered AI. Personnel we
interviewed stated they reported AI based on their own individual understanding of what the term
means rather than a formal definition provided by the Agency. As a result, NASA does not have a
singular designation or classification mechanism to accurately classify and track AI or to identify AI
expenditures within the Agency’s financial system, making it difficult for the Agency to meet federal
requirements to monitor its use of AI. Moreover, at NASA AI is generally managed as part of a larger
project rather than as its own project and therefore is not tracked separately. This impacted the
Agency’s response to EO 13960 to create an AI inventory as well as its response to EO 13859 to compile
an estimated annual budget for AI expenditures. To compile such an inventory and budget, NASA uses a
multi-faceted data call to gather individual responses from AI users, which takes significant time to
compile, validate, and vet and runs the risk of clerical errors that could be significantly lessened using an
automated process.




                                                      6
Further, EO 13859 requires that technical controls exist to minimize AI’s vulnerability to attack by a
malicious actor. Agency officials believe NASA’s existing processes should be adequate to address
security concerns specific to AI including monitoring requirements and ensuring NASA’s AI is properly
safeguarded from cybersecurity vulnerabilities. However, our prior work has shown that NASA’s
fragmented approach to IT management puts the Agency at a higher-than-necessary risk from cyber
threats. Without an AI-specific classification mechanism or means to appropriately categorize and
classify AI within its system of records, the Agency faces increased challenges to implement potential
future federal AI cybersecurity controls.

We made four recommendations to improve the governance, budgeting, and cybersecurity of NASA’s AI
capabilities; the Agency concurred or partially concurred with all of them. One recommendation is now
closed, and the Agency plans to implement corrective action for the remaining by July 2024.

To view the full report, visit NASA’s Management of Its Artificial Intelligence Capabilities.

NASA’s Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 Evaluation Report for
Fiscal Year 2023 (IG-23-017, August 17, 2023)
The Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA) requires the OIG, or an
independent external auditor, to conduct an annual evaluation of NASA’s information security program.
The OIG selected the independent public accounting firm RMA Associates, LLC (RMA) to evaluate NASA’s
information security program in accordance with the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and
Efficiency’s Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation and against the fiscal year 2023 Inspector
General FISMA Reporting Metrics (IG Metrics). The evaluation rated NASA’s information security
program at a Level 3 (Consistently Implemented), which means policies, procedures, and strategies were
consistently implemented, but quantitative and qualitative effectiveness measures were lacking. This
rating fell short of the Office of Management and Budget’s rating that agency cybersecurity programs
should be considered effective.

RMA determined the maturity level for all five cybersecurity functions (Identify, Protect, Detect,
Respond, Recover) using a calculated average scoring model based on testing of the fiscal year 2023
core and supplemental metrics. The Identify, Detect, and Recover functions were rated at a Level 2
(Defined) while the remaining two functions were rated at a Level 3 (Consistently Implemented).

For the Identify function, information contained in NASA’s Risk Information Security Compliance
System—the system of record for information systems—was not current. Specifically, two systems
selected for testing were listed as operational but were not in use. Additionally, one of the systems
selected for testing could not provide evidence to demonstrate an up-to-date inventory of all licenses
used within its system boundaries. The Agency also did not have policies, procedures, and processes for
risk framing, response, and risk monitoring to manage cybersecurity risks. Further, NASA did not
complete the development of an enterprise-wide risk register or a risk profile to record, track, and
communicate enterprise-wide cybersecurity risk management data to support enterprise-level
decision-making and activities across the Agency.

NASA has not incorporated enterprise-wide supplier risk evaluations into the Agency's continuous
monitoring practices. Additionally, while NASA has begun the process of developing its Cybersecurity
Supply Chain Risk Management controls and has made measurable progress in developing and




                                                      7
implementing its supply chain risk management processes across the Agency, NASA had not completed
these efforts.

For the Detect function, NASA did not have a formal process to document and implement information
security and continuous monitoring lessons learned to improve its existing control effectiveness. NASA’s
information security and continuous monitoring strategy was not updated in accordance with the latest
federal requirements. Finally, for two of the four systems selected for testing, the Authorization to
Operate was not up to date and the system-level security assessment report was not updated
continuously or annually.

Lastly, for the Recover function, one system selected for testing did not perform a business impact
analysis, which analyzes the system’s requirements, functions, interdependencies, and priorities to
minimize the impact of an event of significant disruption. NASA lacks centralized IT governance
procedures or oversight to monitor and enforce business impact analyses compliance at the system
level. In addition, NASA did not implement the necessary oversight mechanisms and controls to ensure
all system-level contingency plans were developed, tested, and results reviewed to develop corrective
actions as needed. Contingency plans for two information systems were not tested as required by NASA
policy. Finally, an external information system did not have the appropriate agreement in place to
specify the technical and security requirements of the interconnection of the system with its external
system partner.

RMA made 27 recommendations to address deficiencies across all 5 functions. NASA concurred with all
recommendations and plans to take correction action by July 2024.

To view the full report, visit NASA’s Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 Evaluation
Report for Fiscal Year 2023.




                                                   8
                             ONGOING AUDIT WORK
Audit of NASA’s High-End Computing Program
NASA’s High-End Computing Program provides computing systems and services to support the Agency’s
aeronautics, exploration, science, and space technology missions. High-end computing enables
scientists and engineers to model and analyze data up to 10 times faster and view results at a higher
fidelity. This audit will assess NASA’s management of its High-End Computing Program, specifically the
Agency’s processes and controls related to the Program’s policy framework, capacity planning,
stakeholder engagement, and cybersecurity.

Evaluation of NASA’s Information Security Program under the Federal Information
Security Modernization Act for Fiscal Year 2024
Required by the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014, the Office of Inspector General
is conducting the fiscal year 2024 evaluation of NASA’s information security program and will report the
results to the Office of Management and Budget.



                                   INVESTIGATIONS
3D Printing Company Agrees to Civil Settlement
The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Texas reached a civil settlement with a Texas 3D
printing company that agreed to pay the United States up to $4.54 million to resolve allegations that it
violated the False Claims Act by improperly transmitting export-controlled NASA and U.S. Department of
Defense technical data to a company in China. The potential full settlement amount includes $2.27
million in restitution and an additional $2.27 million in penalties should the company fail to pay the
same amount to the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Commerce in connection with a
parallel administrative settlement.

Contractor Agrees to Settle False Claims Allegations
As the result of a joint investigation by the NASA OIG, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, and
Defense Criminal Investigative Service, a Colorado laser manufacturer agreed to a civil settlement of
$402,621 to settle allegations that it used foreign employees to conduct research and development
consulting services without government approval.

University Agrees to Civil Settlement
As the result of a joint investigation by the NASA OIG, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), U.S. Army
Criminal Investigation Division, and National Science Foundation OIG, an Ohio university agreed to a civil
settlement of $875,689 to resolve allegations that it failed to disclose a professor’s affiliations with and
support from a foreign government in connection with research funding from NASA and other federal
agencies.




                                                     9
Former NASA Contractor Sentenced for Export Violation
A former NASA contractor employee pled guilty to illegally transferring flight control software to a
university in the People’s Republic of China. As a result, he was sentenced to 20 months of
confinement, followed by 3 years of supervised release, and ordered to pay $168,885 in restitution. This
was the result of a joint investigation by the NASA OIG, Army Criminal Investigation Division, FBI,
Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and Department of Commerce Office of Export Enforcement.

University of Arkansas Professor Debarred
A University of Arkansas professor was debarred for a period of 5 years for making a false statement to
the FBI regarding the existence of patents issued by the People’s Republic of China for his inventions.
The professor was previously sentenced to 12 months of imprisonment for this action, followed by 12
months of supervised release, and ordered to pay a $5,000 fine.

Former University Professor Debarred for 3 Years
A former Texas A&M University professor was debarred for 3 years for failing to disclose his association
with entities in China while receiving NASA grant funds.

Unauthorized Release of Software to a Foreign Entity
A NASA OIG investigation revealed the unauthorized release of flight termination software to a foreign
entity in New Zealand by two NASA contractors, one of whom was a former NASA civil servant. While
the case was declined for prosecution, NASA’s Acquisition Integrity Program addressed the flawed
software process that allowed the unauthorized release.

Hubble Space Telescope Export-Controlled Material Posted for Sale
Several presentations related to the Hubble Space Telescope project marked as export controlled under
ITAR were posted on eBay for sale. The items may have originated from an estate sale of a deceased
NASA employee. As a result of the OIG investigation, the items were removed from the website, and
the seller was educated on the implications of selling export-controlled documents to foreign nationals
and the need to coordinate with NASA export control officials in the future.

Orion Space Vehicle ITAR Documents Seized
In July 2023, NASA OIG seized three documents on the Orion spacecraft from an eBay retailer in Cocoa,
Florida. The documents were ITAR controlled and returned to the Kennedy Space Center Export
Administrator. The case was declined for prosecution.




                                                   10
If you or your staff have any questions or would like further information on any of the audit reports or
investigations discussed in this letter, please contact me or Renee Juhans, OIG Executive Officer, at
202-358-1220 or renee.n.juhans@nasa.gov.
                   Digitally signed
                   by George Scott
                   Date: 2024.01.31
                   11:56:32 -05'00'
George A. Scott
Acting Inspector General



cc:             Bill Nelson
                Administrator

                Pamela Melroy
                Deputy Administrator

                James Free
                Associate Administrator

                Bale Dalton
                Chief of Staff

                Jeff Seaton
                Chief Information Officer

                Iris Lan
                General Counsel

                Karen Feldstein
                Associate Administrator for International and Interagency Relations

                Robert Gibbs
                Associate Administrator for Mission Support Directorate



Enclosure—1




                                                    11
      ENCLOSURE I: CONGRESSIONAL RECIPIENTS
United States Senate
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

U.S. House of Representatives
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Committee on Oversight and Accountability
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology




                                               12
