rare earth magnets. Nuclear power requires uranium. Electric vehicles require batteries
made with lithium, cobalt and nickel and magnets. Indium and tellurium are integral to solar
panel manufacturing.

It is therefore paramount for countries around the world to establish and maintain resilient critical
minerals value chains that adhere to the highest ESG standards. It is also important that we partner
with Indigenous Peoples — including ensuring that long-term benefits flow to Indigenous communities.

Canada is in the extremely fortunate position of possessing significant amounts of many of the world’s
most critical minerals as well as the workers, businesses and communities that know how to scale up
our exploration, extraction, processing, manufacturing and recycling of those minerals.

Canada is a world leader in environmental, social and governance standards with respect to mining,
with Canadian industry advancing important initiatives such as Towards Sustainable Mining. We are
also home to almost half of the world’s publicly listed mining and mineral exploration companies, with
a presence in more than 100 countries and a combined market capitalization of $520 billion.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy                1
    The Government of Canada has worked to build on these advantages in the past several years. We
    have invested in businesses and workers along the critical minerals value chain, such as the world’s
    most sustainable potash mine in Saskatchewan, mining of rare earth elements in the Northwest
    Territories and electric vehicle assembly in Quebec.

    The government has also published the list of 31 minerals that Canada considers “critical” to signal to
    domestic and international investors where we will focus our efforts, and we have signed cooperation
    agreements with allies to advance this work together.

    Now, I am pleased to release Canada’s Critical Minerals Strategy. This Strategy, backed by nearly
    $4 billion in Budget 2022, sets out a course for Canada to become a global supplier of choice for
    critical minerals and the clean digital technologies they enable.

    It sets the stage across the country for job creation, economic growth, the advancement of
    reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples and close cooperation with Canada’s allies — all in line with
    Canadian and international climate and nature protection objectives.

    The Critical Minerals Strategy is the roadmap to seizing a generational opportunity. A roadmap to
    creating significant wealth and sustainable jobs in every region of this country. And a roadmap to
    making Canada a clean energy and technology supplier of choice in a net-zero world.

    I look forward to working with Indigenous partners, labour groups, provinces, territories, industry and
    stakeholders in the implementation of this Strategy in the years to come.




    The Honourable
    Jonathan Wilkinson,
    Minister of Natural Resources




2       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Foreword from the Minister of Innovation, Science
and Industry
The global clean energy transition is under way, and it represents the largest economic transformation
since the Industrial Revolution. Canada is poised to seize this generational opportunity—particularly in
the critical minerals sector, from mining to refining and from manufacturing to recycling.

Critical minerals are essential to Canada’s strategic industries. They are at the heart of key sectors
that drive our economy, including agriculture, manufacturing, artificial intelligence, clean technologies,
electric vehicles, energy and much more. They are vital to our everyday lives, and they are essential
inputs for the global energy transition, including for wind turbines, electric vehicle batteries, solar
panels and semiconductors.

As global demand for critical minerals skyrockets, Canada will be extremely well positioned to take
advantage of this opportunity. Thanks to our wealth of critical minerals, our excellence in mining, our
skilled labour and our innovation ecosystem, Canada will become the world’s green supplier of choice
for critical minerals.

This is particularly true as we continue to strengthen critical minerals supply and promote innovation
and sustainable practices across critical minerals value chains. We are doing this in a way that
supports regional economic growth; creates a more inclusive and highly skilled workforce; and
upholds and strengthens our leading environmental, social and governance standards.

Canada’s leadership in this space has never been more important. The fragility of global supply chains
is motivating governments and companies around the world to assess their supply chain resilience
for commodities and manufactured goods. It is increasingly clear that Canada can—and will—be
the solution.

Through the Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy, we are putting our vision into action. We will
incentivize new connections and linkages across Canada’s upstream and downstream critical minerals
value chains, allowing us to build a strong critical minerals ecosystem while supporting leading-edge
digital, clean technology and advanced manufacturing sectors. This strategy will help create and
support hundreds of thousands of well-paying jobs across the country, and it will cement Canada’s
position as a leader in the low-carbon economy. Together, we must be bold, we must be ambitious,
and we must seize the moment.




The Honourable
François-Philippe Champagne,
Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               3
      OVERVIEW
      Vision
      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy will increase the supply of
      responsibly sourced critical minerals and support the development of
      domestic and global value chains for the green and digital economy.




4   The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Summary
Critical minerals represent a generational opportunity for Canada’s workers, economy, and net-
zero future. They are the foundation on which modern technology is built. From solar panels to
semiconductors, wind turbines to advanced batteries for storage and transportation, the world needs
critical minerals to build these products. Simply put, there is no energy transition without critical
minerals, which is why their supply chain resilience has become an increasing priority for advanced
economies. By growing Canadian expertise at every point along the critical mineral value chain — from
mining to manufacturing to recycling — we will create good jobs, build a strong, globally competitive
Canadian economy, and take real action to fight climate change. As a result of this strategy, we will
also better position Canada as a reliable supplier of critical mineral resources to our allies.

The global demand for critical minerals and the manufactured products they go into is required to
increase significantly in the coming decades to enable transition to a green and digital economy.
Current forecasts show supply deficits if critical mineral production, processing and recycling
are not increased. At the same time, the production and processing of many critical minerals are
geographically concentrated, making supply vulnerable to economic, geopolitical, environmental, and
other risks. With its vast resources and manufacturing capacity, Canada is well positioned to become
a secure and reliable supplier of critical minerals and value-added products for global markets.

Growing our supply of critical minerals and the products they go into presents a generational
opportunity with domestic and global benefits. To fully seize this opportunity, we must ensure that
value is added to the entire supply chain, including exploration, extraction, intermediate processing,
advanced manufacturing, and recycling. We must create the necessary conditions for Canadian
companies to grow, scale-up, and expand globally in markets that depend on critical minerals.
Our efforts must be consistent with Canada’s priorities and objectives including environmental
protection and conservation, safe and responsible labour practices, and respect for the rights of
Indigenous peoples.

By growing and building our expertise at each point along the critical mineral supply chain, Canada
can grow its economy from coast to coast to coast, fight climate change at home and around the
world, and improve the resiliency of our supply chain and those of our allies to future disruptions.
Importantly, this must be done in a way that advances the Government of Canada’s commitment
to reconciliation with Indigenous peoples through meaningful consultation, early and ongoing
engagement, investments in capacity supports, environmental stewardship, community safety, and
economic opportunities for Indigenous peoples.

In addition, critical mineral development needs to be sustainable and create nature-forward outcomes
with minimal environmental footprint and leading-edge conservation and reclamation practices (i.e.,
mine closure). A “nature forward” approach to critical minerals development and sourcing means
incorporating practices that work to prevent biodiversity loss, protect species at risk , and support
nature protection. Innovative ways to capture value from alternative sources and waste streams,
recycling technologies, and traditional Indigenous conservation practices are all examples of “nature
forward” solutions.

The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy will empower businesses, workers, and communities across
Canada to seize this generational opportunity. Accelerating the development of Canada’s critical
mineral sector, while ensuring environmental sustainability and respecting the rights of Indigenous
peoples, is essential if Canada is to seize upon this generational opportunity and position itself as a
stable supplier of critical minerals, both at home and abroad.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy            5
      Objectives
      Canada’s whole-of-government approach to critical mineral development will be collaborative,
      forward-looking, iterative, adaptive, and long-term. The initiatives presented in this Strategy will
      be implemented and refined in collaboration with provincial, territorial, Indigenous, industry, and
      other Canadian and international partners. They will be updated, as needed, to respond to shifts
      in domestic and global markets, technologies, and geopolitical considerations. As such, this
      Strategy will help lay the foundation for Canada’s industrial transformation towards a greener,
      more secure, and more competitive economy.

      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy addresses five core objectives:




                           2. Promoting                         4. Fostering
                              climate                           diverse and
                            action and                            inclusive
      1. Supporting       environmental        3. Advancing    workforces and   5. Enhancing
    economic growth,        protection;        reconciliation communities; and global security
    competitiveness,                          with Indigenous                 and partnerships
    and job creation;                             peoples;                       with allies.




      These objectives will be achieved by focusing on six areas of focus:

          1. driving research, innovation, and exploration;

          2. accelerating project development;

          3. building sustainable infrastructure;

          4. advancing reconciliation with Indigenous peoples;

          5. growing a diverse workforce and prosperous communities; and

          6. strengthening global leadership and security.




6       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
The success of Canada’s critical mineral development is tied to the active participation of Indigenous
peoples, achieved by integrating diverse Indigenous perspectives through ongoing engagement,
collaboration, and benefits-sharing. Indigenous peoples are the stewards, right holders and, in some
cases, title holders to the land upon which mineral and industrial development takes place. The
Government of Canada is renewing relationships with Indigenous peoples through the implementation
of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act (UNDA), which came into
force on June 21, 2021. The Act provides a clear vision for the future to ensure that federal laws reflect
the standards set out in the Declaration, while also respecting Aboriginal and Treaty rights recognized
and affirmed in the Constitution and seeking to secure free, prior, and informed consent for natural
resource projects, including critical mineral development.

The Strategy also emphasizes the conservation and protection of Canada’s natural environment, as
well as the promotion of climate action by supporting the transition to a greener economy at home
and around the world. Mining and related activities can have significant impacts on communities
and ecosystems. Canadians place great value on public health and safety, air and soil quality, and
wildlife and habitat preservation. Through this Strategy, Canada will leverage its industrial expertise
in environmental, social and governance (ESG) frameworks to develop critical minerals with minimal
environmental footprint, in accordance with some of the world’s most responsible regulations. In
addition, the Strategy will help advance Canada’s circular economy by aiming to keep resources in
circulation, minimizing industrial waste through recycling and other means, and thus contributing to an
environmentally responsible and economically competitive critical minerals sector.

The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy complements the vision, principles, and strategic directions
of the Canadian Minerals and Metals Plan (CMMP), developed in collaboration with provinces and
territories and founded on engagement with industry, Indigenous business representatives, and other
stakeholders working to build a stronger, more competitive mining sector.




What Are Critical Minerals?
Canada and other countries have developed defined lists of critical minerals to guide investment and
prioritize decision-making to support supply chains. Critical minerals can change with time based
on supply and demand, technological development, and shifting societal needs. Some commonly
recognized examples of critical minerals include lithium, nickel, cobalt, graphite, and zinc, among
others. While these country-specific lists differ in their composition internationally, there is a shared
view that critical minerals:

     ¤ have few or no substitutes;
     ¤ are strategic and somewhat limited commodities; or
     ¤ are increasingly concentrated in terms of extraction and, even more, in terms of
       processing location.
There is significant overlap between jurisdictions due to the nature of global supply chains and shared
challenges. For example, many critical minerals on Canada’s list are also included on lists by the
United States, the European Union, the United Kingdom, South Korea, and Japan. A comparison of
Canada’s list relative to those of our partners can be found in Annex E.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               7
                                  Did You Know?
                                  Critical minerals are used in a variety of goods and
                                  products, many of which can be found in our homes
                                  and daily lives.




                                                                            Solar Panel
                                                                            e.g. Gallium.
                                                                            Copper, Zinc



      Electrical Wiring
    e.g. Copper, Aluminum




                                                                                            Electronics
                                                                                            (Laptops, LED
                                                                                            Monitors/TVs,
                                                                                            Smartphones)
                                                                                            e.g. Indium, rare
                                                                                            earth elements
Stainless Steel
   Appliances
    e.g. Manganese




                                                                                                 Fertilizer
                                                                                                 e.g. Potash



                                    Electric Vehicle
                            e.g. Lithium, nickel, cobalt,
                                 graphite, manganese




8         The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
CRITICAL MINERALS IN CANADA
Canada has a list of 31 minerals it currently considers to be “critical.” Developed in consultation with
provincial, territorial, and industry experts, Canada’s Critical Minerals List provides greater certainty and
predictability to investors, developers, communities, and trading partners on national priorities. To be
deemed “critical” in Canada, a mineral must be

    ¤ essential to Canada’s economic security and its supply is threatened; or
    ¤ required for our national transition to a low-carbon economy; or,
    ¤ a sustainable source of highly strategic critical minerals for our partners and allies.

Canada already produces more than 60 minerals and metals and is a leading global producer of many
of the critical minerals on our list, including nickel, potash, aluminum, and uranium. We have the
potential to supply even more critical minerals to both domestic and international markets.

Figure 1: Canada’s 31 Critical Minerals and Some of Their Uses




Of Canada’s 31 critical minerals, six are initially prioritized in this Strategy for their distinct potential
to spur Canadian economic growth and their necessity as inputs for priority supply chains. These six
minerals are lithium, graphite, nickel, cobalt, copper, and rare earth elements (Annex B). While these
minerals represent the greatest opportunity to fuel domestic manufacturing and will be the initial
focus of federal investments, many other minerals present notable prospects for the future. Further,
where critical minerals are not used solely for domestic manufacturing, there is value to be captured
by increasing exports for allies, and expanding domestic refining, processing and components
manufacturing. Examples of these minerals are vanadium, gallium, titanium, scandium, magnesium,
tellurium, zinc, niobium, and germanium, along with potash, uranium and alluminum (Annex B).
Canada’s list of 31 minerals, as well as the federal government’s priority value chains, will be reviewed
and updated every few years.

                                                         The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy                9
     Foundations for a Competitive, Sustainable Economy
     Critical minerals are the building blocks for the green and digital economy. They are used in a wide
     range of essential products, from mobile phones to solar panels, electric vehicle batteries to medical
     and healthcare devices, to military and national defence applications. Without critical minerals, there
     can be no green energy transition for Canada and the world. By investing in critical minerals today, we
     are building a sustainable industrial base to support emission-reducing supply chains that will address
     climate change for generations to come (e.g., net-zero energy and transportation systems).

     Growth in green and digital applications is expected to boost the global demand for many critical
     minerals. According to the International Energy Agency, the energy sector’s overall needs for critical
     minerals could increase by as much as six times by 2040. The North American zero-emission vehicle
     (ZEV) market alone is estimated to reach $174 billion by 2030, creating more than 220,000 jobs in
     mining, processing, and manufacturing.

     Based on a report by Clean Energy Canada, a battery supply chain in Canada could directly contribute
     between $5.7 billion to $24 billion in GDP by 2030 annually, supporting between 18,500 and
     81,000 direct jobs, depending on how quickly and ambitiously Canadian governments act. These
     figures grow to between $15 billion and $59 billion in annual GDP contributions, and 79,000 and
     333,000 jobs, when indirect and induced activities and jobs are included. Once realized, these
     activities would contribute between $2.7 billion and $11 billion annually in combined federal and
     provincial government revenues.


     Canada’s Critical-Mineral-Rich Regions
     Canada is endowed with enormous resource wealth spread across critical-mineral-rich regions
     from coast to coast to coast, including rural, remote, and Indigenous communities. For example,
     Canada is the only Western nation that has an abundance of cobalt, graphite, lithium, and nickel
     — essential to creating the batteries and electric vehicles of the future. Canada is also the world’s
     second-largest producer of niobium, an important metal for the aerospace industry, and the fourth-
     largest producer of indium, a key input in semiconductors and many materials needed for advanced
     vehicle manufacturing.

     Figure 2: Critical Mineral Opportunities
     Spanning All Regions of Canada




10       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Our preliminary analysis has identified several Canadian regions with high potential for mineral
exploration and development in the near term. Recognizing that these regions are at different stages
of development, ongoing analysis and engagement with provinces, territories, Indigenous peoples,
and industry experts will be needed to further evaluate their potential and suitability for mineral
development, as well as their connection to value chain and consideration of environmental aspects
and Indigenous perspectives.


Defining the Value Chain: From Exploration to Recycling
Value chains differ from supply chains. A value chain is the set of activities that add value at each stage
of the production and delivery of a product to market (e.g., a product upgrade or process innovation).
Value chains tend to improve an industry’s competitive advantage. A supply chain, on the other hand, is
a related concept pertaining to the organization and logistics of getting a product to market.

Building on the success of Canada’s Mines to Mobility approach — which has attracted major
investments in the manufacturing of zero-emission vehicles — this Strategy focuses on critical mineral
exploration to recycling. It goes beyond the foundation established from Mines to Mobility by building
capacity at each stage of the value chain, from exploration to recycling, and everything in between.

The value chain for critical minerals includes five segments: geoscience and exploration; mineral
extraction; intermediate processing; advanced manufacturing; and, recycling. An illustrative example of
a critical mineral value chain is included below.

Figure 3: The Value Chain of Critical Minerals Addressed in This Strategy: From Exploration
to Recycling




At present, the production and processing of many critical minerals are geographically concentrated,
making global supply vulnerable to several risks. For example, recent geopolitical events, such
as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, highlight the fragility of critical mineral supply and the need for
Canada’s partners and allies to diversify their sources. By ramping up critical mineral production and
strengthening their affiliated value chains, Canada and its trusted international partners can reduce their
dependency on high-risk imports as demand forecasts outpace mineral supply and investment plans.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy                11
     Value Chains With High Potential for National Integration
     To build competitive value chains in Canada, different stages of the industrial process need to
     be nationally integrated. For example, instead of exporting mineral resources to be processed in
     foreign countries and reimported as final goods or inputs for domestic manufacturing, Canada
     can build industrial ecosystems where all stages of the value chain are available and integrated
     domestically, and with trading partners. Minerals extracted in the Territories could be processed in
     the Prairies to supply manufacturing operations in other regions of Canada. Industrial suppliers and
     consumers along the value chain could invest in Canada with greater confidence, in partnership with
     governments, communities and regional development organizations across the country.

     The following value chains have the highest potential for such integration in Canada:

             ¤ Clean technologies, which include zero-emission vehicles (ZEV), wind turbines, solar
               panels, advanced batteries, hydrogen fuel cells, small modular reactors;

             ¤ Information and communication technologies, including semiconductors;

             ¤ Advanced manufacturing inputs and materials, such as defence applications,
               permanent magnets, ceramics, high value-added metals, electronic materials,
               composites, polymers, and biomaterials.

     These value chains offer the greatest potential for economic growth and employment across the
     country. The critical mineral resources needed to build their end products tend to be underdeveloped
     in Canada, and thus would benefit from government funding to further strengthen the
     competitiveness of our mining and manufacturing sectors. Developing critical minerals for the green
     and digital economy is also expected to catalyze foreign direct investment (FDI), helping to create
     more resilient supply chains. It is in Canada’s advantage to work with allies to pursue increased
     resiliency in our value chains, which will further enhance our country’s ability to attract investment.
     Annex B presents more information on the critical minerals implicated in Canada’s high-potential
     value chains.

     As we build new value chains in Canada, we will continue to strengthen and consolidate our existing
     position as a strong, sustainable producer and global supplier of leading Canadian minerals and
     metals, like potash, uranium, and aluminum — all critical to the global economy. Whether they
     represent opportunities in low-carbon energy and electrification, healthcare, green buildings, or food
     security, we recognize that these minerals are central to Canada’s economic well-being, trading
     relationships, and strategic global position. Canada’s Trade Commission Services will be a key
     partner in helping Canadian firms find international business opportunities in these value chains
     across the world.




12      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Did you know?
Canada has a pipeline of critical mineral projects in advanced stages of development.
Canada currently ranks fifth globally in the production of graphite and nickel and is an
emerging supplier of many other critical minerals. In 2021, 11% of globally mined nickel and
24% of globally mined graphite were used in batteries. We are also primed to help address
the world’s growing demand for lithium.

Canada is the world’s largest producer and exporter of potash, which is primarily used to
produce fertilizer. In 2021, Canada accounted for 31% (22.5 million tonnes) of the world’s
total potash production and 38% (21.6 million tonnes) of the world’s total potash exports.
With the war in Ukraine having created uncertainty about potash supply coming out of
eastern Europe, Canadian firms are increasing their production for this essential input for
global food security.




Sustainable Development and the Circular Economy
This Strategy recognizes Canadian priorities such as human rights, section 35 Aboriginal
and treaty rights, climate action, inclusive trade, and the eradication of forced labour. It aims
to advance and promote environmental, social, and governance (ESG) priorities across the
critical mineral value chain, including support for industry-led approaches such as the Mining
Association of Canada’s (MAC) Towards Sustainable Mining initiative, and international standard-
setting bodies, such as the International Standards Organization. ESG considerations are
becoming increasingly prominent in business and investment decisions. For example, automotive
firms have shown heightened interest in ESG frameworks as they transition away from
combustion engines towards increased production of electric vehicles. Many mining companies
have been implementing their own net-zero objectives, including investments in green technology
and process innovations.

As we work to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) of end products and improve
responsible business practices, markets, investors, and consumers are increasingly demanding
more sustainable practices throughout the value chain. In addition, Canada is seeking to advance
efforts that support human rights through collaboration on transparency and traceability in
the critical mineral supply chain, as under Canada’s Extractive Sector Transparency Measures
Act (ESTMA), and through participation in international activities like the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative. There has also been increased recognition that Indigenous perspectives
must be better integrated into ESG standards and ratings to ensure investor certainty while
advancing economic reconciliation in Canada’s mining and manufacturing sectors.




                                                 The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy            13
     The global transition to a greener future is expected to increase the volume of end-of-life clean and
     digital technologies. For that reason, this Strategy will advance circular solutions to close material
     loops, increase access to the minerals and metals contained in post-consumer goods through
     robust recycling infrastructure and secondary markets, and encourage their recovery from mining
     and industrial waste streams. Circularity will ensure that Canada retains the benefits from the
     extraction of its critical minerals for decades to come, capitalizing on an industrial segment with
     untapped potential. As such, it will further cement Canada’s leadership in sustainable industrial
     practices and ESG frameworks.

     Canada’s 2030 Agenda National Strategy, Moving Forward Together, aims to implement the
     Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and highlight Canada’s commitments to promoting and
     protecting human rights, and leveraging fair and inclusive trade to raise incomes and broaden its
     benefits for underrepresented groups, such as women and Indigenous peoples. Promoting and
     encouraging responsible business conduct and proactively addressing risks provides businesses
     with a stronger social license to operate when facing potential legal, political, and social challenges.
     Canadian companies active in Indigenous lands are expected to follow established international
     frameworks and guidelines such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
     Peoples (UNDRIP), the UN Guiding Principles and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
     Enterprises. Canada’s expectation for responsible business conduct and due diligence can be
     found in Canada’s strategy for Responsible Business Conduct Abroad.




14      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
CANADA’S OPPORTUNITY
AND OBJECTIVES
The generational opportunity presented by critical minerals is defined by five core objectives, which, if
achieved, will indicate that Canada has successfully seized the opportunity before it.




Canada’s Competitive Advantage
   ¤ A developed industry with world class mineral resource wealth. In 2021, the minerals
     sector directly and indirectly contributed $125 billion or 5% of Canada’s total nominal GDP.

   ¤ Strong environmental, social, and governance (ESG) credentials. The Mining Association
     of Canada’s (MAC) Towards Sustainable Mining initiative (TSM) is globally recognized for
     supporting companies in managing environmental and social risks. TSM is mandatory for all
     MAC members operating in Canada.

   ¤ Long-standing mining expertise with extensive technology and mining capabilities.
     Canada has a robust network of research and development labs that continually advance
     science and technology in a competitive mining sector.

   ¤ Established advanced manufacturing sector. Canada’s manufacturing sector employed
     approximately 1.7 million Canadians in 2019, representing about 10% of the national economy.
     Canada is also the 6th largest commercial vehicle manufacturer in the world.

   ¤ Abundant clean energy resources. According to the Canada Energy Regulator, 75% of our
     national electricity in 2019 was generated from hydro, nuclear, wind, and solar combined.

   ¤ Open economy and governance structure. Canada is one of the leading mining countries
     in the world and one of the largest producers of minerals and metals. Valued at $102 billion in
     2020, mineral exports accounted for 21% of Canada’s total domestic exports.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy              15
     What does success look like?
     Objective 1: Support economic growth and competitiveness.
        ¤ High-quality and paying jobs are created in the critical minerals exploration, mining,
          processing, manufacturing, and recycling sectors, with Canadian SME’s accounting for a
          significant share of the market.

        ¤ Canada’s economic resiliency is improved by reducing its dependency on key sourcing
          countries for inputs and manufactured goods.

        ¤ Critical mineral supply chains among trusted partners are made more resilient thanks to
          increased Canadian supply.

        ¤ Economic growth is sustained and enhanced through the anticipated increase in value-
          added and GDP growth (e.g., global market share), as well as regional economic development
          initiatives, including in rural, remote, and Indigenous communities.

        ¤ Trade is increased through reliable exports of processed materials and value-added goods.

        ¤ Value is added by developing, expanding, and integrating Canadian value chains, including
          midstream processing and the circular economy (e.g., through recycling and extracting value
          from mining waste) and increasing the participation of domestic SMEs.

        ¤ Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) is attracted, enhancing all the factors above while also
          increasing capital and investment in R&D, leading to innovation, technological advancement,
          improved productivity, and increased exports.



     Objective 2: Promote climate action and strong
     environmental management.
     Recognizing that sustainable critical mineral development is indivisible from our net-zero objectives,
     Canada wants to advance “nature forward” approaches, which seek to incorporate practices that
     prevent biodiversity loss, protect species at risk and support nature protection.

        ¤ Nature and biodiversity-related commitments and standards are upheld by limiting the
          environmental footprint of mining activities and advancing exemplary ESG standards, including
          conservation and reclamation practices that prevent the loss of biodiversity.

        ¤ GHG emissions are reduced through the deployment of clean technologies and low-emission
          industrial processes, in line with Canada’s Emissions Reduction Plan.

        ¤ Waste is reduced, end-of-life products are reused, and their mineral content recycled by
          means of innovative technologies and processing techniques (e.g., mining value from tailings,
          recycling wastewater, reuse of chemicals).

        ¤ Indigenous Knowledge is respectfully incorporated into considerations for sustainable
          critical mineral development, in line with the new Indigenous Knowledge Policy Framework for
          Project Reviews and Regulatory Decisions, as well as Indigenous guardian programs.




16      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Objective 3: Advance reconciliation with Indigenous peoples.
While Indigenous leadership and communities across the country will determine how they view success
regarding critical mineral development on or near their territories, the Government of Canada will start with
the following outcomes:

   ¤ Economic reconciliation is prioritized by enhancing Indigenous participation in jobs, businesses,
     and ownership of mining and enabling infrastructure projects and sharing direct benefits from critical
     mineral development. Indigenous communities will directly benefit from critical mineral development
     through the development and implementation of a National Benefits Sharing Framework which will
     ensure that First Nations and Métis communities can directly benefit from major resource projects in
     their territories and that Inuit communities benefit from major resource projects in Inuit Nunangat.

   ¤ Aboriginal and treaty rights are respected through early, meaningful, and ongoing engagement
     with Indigenous peoples, from project conception to development and oversight, and through robust
     and inclusive regulatory processes. More specifically, the federal government will respect section
     35 rights; honour the spirit and intent of historic and modern treaties; facilitate more opportunities
     for Indigenous-led planning and decision-making around land use and development; mitigate
     environmental impacts and address their cumulative effects; and support UNDA implementation by
     championing UNDA principles around working together in partnership and respect.

   ¤ Responsible critical mineral development contributes to the socio-economic well-being of
     Indigenous communities by ensuring that Indigenous women, girls and 2SLGBTQQIA+ people are
     safe and secure, and derive equitable benefits from critical mineral projects. The federal government
     will work to facilitate Indigenous access to jobs in the mining sector and will engage Indigenous
     peoples on decisions related to critical mineral projects.


Objective 4: Foster diverse and inclusive workforces and communities.
   ¤ Diversity and inclusion in the workforce are enhanced, particularly for women, youth,
     2SLGBTQQIA+, Indigenous peoples, recent immigrants, Black and racialized communities, and
     persons with disabilities.

   ¤ Human rights are upheld through Canada’s commitment to the SDGs and expectations for
     responsible business conduct and due diligence throughout the supply chain.

   ¤ Leading professionals are trained and upskilled by leveraging existing government initiatives,
     such as the Youth Employment Strategy, the Centre on Diversity and Inclusion, and the Rural
     Economic Development Strategy to create and sustain high-quality jobs.



Objective 5: Enhance global security and partnership with allies.
   ¤ Cooperation agreements are advanced through bilateral and multilateral forums with a view of
     protecting critical mineral supply chains among trading partners and like-minded nations.

   ¤ Investment attraction is enhanced by protecting Canadian assets while encouraging foreign direct
     investment under certain conditions.

   ¤ International best practices are strengthened, including Environmental, Social, and Governance
     (ESG) frameworks, as well as the protection of human rights, including Indigenous rights.




                                                         The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy                17
18   The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS
AND INITIATIVES
The Critical Minerals Centre of Excellence (CMCE), housed at Natural Resources Canada, leads the
development and coordination of Canada’s policies and programs on critical minerals, in collaboration
with federal, provincial, territorial, Indigenous, industry, non-governmental, and international
partners. Federal initiatives and investments related to this Strategy will be advanced according to
six focus areas: 1) Driving research, innovation, and exploration, 2) Accelerating responsible project
development, 3) Building sustainable infrastructure, 4) Advancing reconciliation with Indigenous
peoples, 5) Growing a diverse workforce and prosperous communities, and 6) Strengthening global
leadership and security.


1. Driving Exploration, Research & Development,
and Innovation
As a leading mining nation backed by a rich endowment of resources, Canada has vast opportunities
when it comes to critical minerals. Exploration is the starting point if we are to make the most of this
potential. To unlock these possibilities, we need to expand geoscience and exploration activities to
find the deposits of the future, as locating critical minerals in Canada’s vast landmass is a complex
endeavour. It requires advanced geoscience capabilities, including geological mapping, geophysical
surveying, and scientific assessments and data. The next step is to be able to extract and process
critical minerals sustainably. Canada will need to continue developing innovative technologies (e.g.,
new conversion processes) and industrial practices that optimize efficiency, cost competitiveness, and
environmental stewardship.

Budget commitments from 2021 and 2022 cover different aspects of the critical minerals value chain,
from exploration to processing and refining, to more advanced products.
They include:



                                                                                  $144.4
                                                                                    million
     $79.2                       30%                     $47.7                   for critical mineral
                                                                                    research and

      million
                               Critical Mineral
                              Exploration Tax             million                development, and
                                                                                 the deployment of
 for public geoscience       Credit for targeted         for targeted
                                                                                  technologies and
    and exploration           critical minerals;       upstream critical
                                                                                materials to support
   to better identify                                mineral R&D through
                                                                                   critical mineral
  and assess mineral                                  Canada’s research
                                                                                  development for
       deposits;                                             labs;
                                                                                    upstream and
                                                                                midstream segments
                                                                                 of the value chain.




                                                     The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               19
     The federal government will invest in geological modelling and resource potential mapping
     for both conventional and unconventional sources, which will help define and enhance our
     collective knowledge of Canada’s critical minerals landscape. Discoveries of future mineral
     wealth, particularly in rural, remote, and northern regions, will require advanced technologies at
     the exploration stage to identify areas of highest potential, while minimizing exploration costs,
     reducing the carbon footprint of exploration programs, and minimizing the environmental impact
     on the landscape.

     Information and data will be made publicly available to inform development considerations
     for potential critical mineral projects and to support investment decisions across the supply
     chain. This includes mobilizing knowledge in a manner that is culturally relevant to Indigenous
     communities, thus supporting Indigenous evidence-based decision-making. Considered together
     with other metrics, such as economic and technical feasibility, Indigenous partnerships, and
     environmental, social, and governance priorities, reliable data at an early stage will help identify
     exploration opportunities that offer the greatest potential economic benefit and lowest risk to the
     natural environment.

     In addition, Budget 2022 introduced a tax incentive to support exploration for certain critical
     minerals. The Government of Canada’s proposed Critical Minerals Exploration Tax Credit, in
     combination with the existing flow-through share program, will provide a significant incentive to
     investors to support exploration for certain critical minerals in Canada.




      Supporting Critical Mineral Exploration in Canada
      To enable the exploration of critical minerals, a new 30 percent Critical Mineral Exploration
      Tax Credit is being introduced that would be available to investors under certain flow-through
      shares agreements to support specified exploration expenditures incurred in Canada. This
      tax credit is applicable to specific critical minerals including nickel, lithium, cobalt, graphite,
      copper, rare earth elements, vanadium, and uranium, among others.




      Finally, the federal government leverages national labs and catalyzes private sector investment to
      accelerate technological innovation in Canada’s critical minerals sector and associated industries,
      thus enhancing competitiveness and environmental performance. Building on the momentum
      of the Critical Minerals Research, Development and Demonstration Program launched in 2021,
      we will scale up support to de-risk innovations through research, piloting, and deployment
      to advance sustainable technologies and processes towards commercialization in identified
      priority value chains. New innovation funding will focus on processing and refining technologies
      needed to effectively and efficiently transform minerals from primary and secondary sources into
      intermediate materials, including post-consumer waste (e.g., used batteries) and mining waste
      (e.g., tailings).




20    The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Industry partnerships will be crucial. We will support and directly work with the sector to facilitate the
development and deployment of market-ready technologies and innovations (e.g., emerging mining
electrification systems, processes to extract value from waste, etc.).

Through a robust network of research and development labs, Canada has the science, technologies,
and tools to be a leader in the development of critical minerals. Partnerships with the provinces
and territories, Indigenous governments and organizations, academia, and research institutions, as
well as industry stakeholders will be key to developing a sustainable pipeline of innovative mineral
development projects in Canada. Recognizing potential opportunities in the critical minerals industry,
this Strategy provides a targeted commitment to geoscience, exploration, and innovation which is
unprecedented in the Canadian mining sector.




  Summary and Next Steps
      ¤ The federal government recognizes that investing in public geoscience is a key element to
        identifying and assessing critical mineral resources in Canada.

      ¤ Enabling exploration via targeted financial incentives for critical mineral exploration activities
        in Canada will help reduce risks for proponents and help grow the sector. Supporting critical
        mineral innovations, particularly in areas that enhance sustainability and environmental
        performance, will unlock additional opportunities from the sector while protecting our
        environment and enhancing our competitiveness.




2. Accelerating Responsible Project Development
To advance our transition to a net-zero economy, the federal government is providing financial
and administrative support to accelerate the development of strategic projects in critical mineral
mining, processing, manufacturing, and waste reduction (e.g., through recycling and mining value
from waste). This support includes strategic investments to unlock potential in critical-mineral-
rich regions, leveraging the resources and expertise of federal trade and business development
organizations such as the Business Development Bank of Canada, Export Development Canada, and
the Canadian Commercial Corporation. It also means capitalizing on existing programs such as the
Strategic Innovation Fund (SIF), which is already making significant investments in the electric vehicle
battery industries.

Most critical mineral industrial projects require large upfront investments that are higher risk and may
generate a slower return. For example, it can presently take anywhere from 5 to 25 years for a mining
project to become operational, with no revenue until production starts. Domestic projects are also
subject to rigorous federal and provincial/territorial regulatory assessments to meet Canada’s high
environmental and social standards.




                                                        The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy              21
     Budgets 2021 and 2022 include multiple initiatives to help accelerate
     project development:




                                                                                            $21.5
                                                                                                million
                    $1.5                                  $40                          to support the Critical
                   billion                              million                          Minerals Centre of
                                                                                       Excellence (CMCE) to
            for the SIF to support                 to support northern
                                                                                      develop federal policies
          critical minerals projects,            regulatory processes in
                                                                                      and programs on critical
          with prioritization given to          reviewing and permitting
                                                                                       minerals and to assist
          advanced manufacturing,               critical minerals projects;
                                                                                        project developers in
          processing, and recycling                         and
                                                                                       navigating regulatory
                 applications.
                                                                                       processes and federal
                                                                                         support measures.1




     The SIF will be one of the most significant direct funding mechanisms in Canada’s toolkit presented
     under this Strategy. The SIF will help build world-class critical mineral value chains in which
     prefabrication and manufacturing activities are done domestically by default. It will support projects
     that decrease or remove reliance on foreign critical mineral inputs across a range of priority industrial
     sectors or technologies. It will help grow Canada’s critical mineral value chains in areas of research,
     development, extraction, processing, manufacturing and/or recycling. Finally, SIF investments will
     favour critical mineral development opportunities that aim to reduce GHG emissions in Canada’s
     critical mineral and manufacturing sectors.




     Building on Mines to Mobility
     In 2019, the federal government launched the Mines to Mobility initiative to build a sustainable battery
     innovation and industrial ecosystem in Canada. To date, the initiative has attracted more than $7 billion
     in announced investments to capture opportunities in the growing global battery market. It has led
     to an increased interest in Canada’s value proposition in the battery sector, attracting notable global
     players in the midstream and upstream segments of our domestic value chain. The federal government
     will continue to support Canada’s battery ecosystem through the Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
     by building value chains that position Canada as a global leader in the innovative and sustainable
     production of ZEV batteries.




     This amount represents $10.9 million from Budget 2021 and $10.6 million from Budget 2022
     1




22       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Investments Across the Battery Value Chain
 Ford                           GM Canada                     THE LION
 Investing
                                                              ELECTRIC CO
                                Investing $1 billion to
 $1.8 billion to produce        transform CAMI Ingersoll      A manufacturer of all
 Vs in Canada                   plant to EV commercial        electric medium and
                                van plant                     heavy duty vehicles invests
                                                              $285 million for a battery
                                                              manufacturing plant and
                                                              innovation centre in QC




 Electra                        Vale                          NanoOne
 Battery Materials              Concluded a prefeasibility    NanoOne acquires Johnson
                                study to produce nickel       Matthey Battery Materials,
 North America’s first cobalt
                                sulfate in Bécancour, QC      enters into a joint production
 refinery for battery metals
                                                              agreement with BASF
 announces plans to develop
                                                              for CAM and announces
 a second cobalt processing
 facility in Canada in Quebec                                 $10 million strategic
                                                              investment agreement with
                                                              Rio Tinto



 LGES and Stellantis            GM/POSCO                      BASF
 JV for over $5 billion EV      $500 million joint venture    purchase of land in
 battery plant in Windsor,      to produce cathode active     Bécancour for a future
 Ontario                        materials in Bécancour, QC    cathode active materials
                                                              production




Stellantis                      Umicore                       Honda
$3.6 billion to retool          $1.5 billion for cathode      to invest nearly
Brampton and Windsor            active material and           $1.4 billion to retool its
plants to produce               precursor cathode active      manufacturing operations
EVs & fund Windsor              materials production in       in Alliston, Ont., to launch
Automotive Research and         Ontario                       the next generation of
Development Centre                                            hybrid-electric vehicles.




                                                The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy        23
     The Government of Canada recognizes that to meet our ambitious climate and economic objectives
     to transition to a net-zero economy, additional mechanisms must be in place to expedite and
     facilitate strategic critical mineral projects from investment and funding opportunities, through
     regulatory approvals and development, to production. We recognize that, although responsible
     regulations are vital, complex regulatory and permitting processes can hinder the economic
     competitiveness of the sector and increase investment risk for proponents. As such, the federal
     government remains committed to sustainable economic development and environmental
     protection, which go hand-in-hand, in collaborating with Indigenous peoples, as well as the
     provinces and territories. We are committed to collaboration on impact assessments, informed
     participation and decision-making, and high environmental standards for critical mineral projects.

     We have heard that better coordination and harmonization is needed across all orders of
     governments and throughout the impact assessment and regulatory/permitting processes, to avoid
     duplication, streamline requirements, and ensure early Indigenous consultation and engagement in a
     manner that respects the parameters of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
     Peoples Act. Regulatory certainty is a prerequisite for Canada’s economic competitiveness, which is
     why the federal government is taking the following actions:

        ¤ Mandating the Critical Minerals Centre of Excellence (CMCE) to assist project developers
          navigate regulatory processes and federal support measures;

        ¤ Convening Regional Energy and Resource Tables to align Canada’s federal, provincial, and
          territorial approaches to regulatory and permitting processes for mining;

        ¤ Reviewing Canada’s regulatory framework, in a working group that includes Natural
          Resources Canada, the Impact Assessment Agency of Canada and other federal partners, to
          identify opportunities for advancing clean growth projects (including critical minerals mines)
          in a timely and predictable manner, while safeguarding the interests of Canadians, protecting
          the environment, and respecting the rights of Indigenous peoples;

        ¤ Exploring regulatory harmonization opportunities with our U.S. partners.

     For major development projects where both federal and provincial impact or environmental
     assessments are required, the Government of Canada is committed to meeting the objective of
     “one project, one assessment” in its review of projects by working with other jurisdictions to reduce
     duplication and increase efficiency and certainty in the regulatory process. The federal government
     also recognizes that efficient, effective, and inclusive northern co-management regulatory regimes
     are important to advance critical mineral projects in the distinct regulatory environment of northern
     Canada. The meaningful participation and leadership of Indigenous peoples, including shared and
     informed decision making, is integral to ensure that projects advance, and that Indigenous rights
     and titles are upheld.

     The CMCE will continue to act as the central coordination hub for critical mineral programs within
     the federal government, assisting partners and stakeholders in navigating Canada’s regulatory
     processes to advance project development. Recognizing the wealth of expertise that already
     exists across the Canadian critical mineral sector, the CMCE will also strive to facilitate regional
     engagement and connections within the sector and communicate industry information and
     resources to further stimulate project development.




24      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Summary and Next Steps
   ¤ Canada needs to act swiftly in capturing the generational opportunity presented by the growing
     global demand for critical minerals to support the green and digital economy. The federal
     government recognizes that predictable and efficient regulatory regimes are a prerequisite for
     Canada’s economic competitiveness and is making efforts to streamline project assessments
     and permits. Budgets 2021 and 2022 proposed multiple initiatives to help accelerate critical
     mineral project development:

       ¤ The $1.5 billion critical mineral envelope under the SIF will support advanced
         manufacturing, processing, and recycling applications;

       ¤ An allocation of $40 million will support northern regulatory processes in reviewing and
         permitting critical mineral projects; and

       ¤ The CMCE will use its $21.5 million in extension funds to provide a broad range of
         programming support for the sector, in collaboration with implicated teams across the
         federal government.




3. Building Sustainable Infrastructure
Strategic infrastructure investments are key to translating Canada’s critical mineral potential into
reality and securing its position as a leading supplier of minerals and materials to fuel demand for
clean energy technologies. Canada’s critical mineral sector has tremendous opportunities that remain
underdeveloped. Critical mineral deposits are often located in remote areas with challenging terrain
and limited access to enabling infrastructure such as roads or grid connectivity. The cost implications
of this infrastructure deficit discourage investment and hinder the socio-economic development of
local communities that welcome mineral development. It also increases the risks associated with
economic and logistical feasibility, particularly with rising inflationary pressures and challenges in
global supply chains.

To address this, Budget 2022 includes a provision of up to $1.5 billion for infrastructure development
for critical mineral supply chains, with a focus on priority deposits. The federal government is
supporting the development of Canada’s critical minerals sector by investing in sustainable energy
and transportation infrastructure to support industrial development, unlock priority mineral deposits,
improve supply chain resiliency, and facilitate international trade. These investments will support
Canadian economic development and trade by addressing gaps in enabling infrastructure to unlock
priority mineral deposits. Additionally, investments would complement existing clean energy and
transportation programming, including the Canada Infrastructure Bank (CIB), Transport Canada’s
National Trade Corridors Fund (NTCF) and NRCan’s Smart Renewables and Electrification Pathways
(SREPs) Program. The Strategy would align with other strategic federal investment mechanisms
(e.g., the Strategic Innovation Fund), the potential for multi-user benefits to local communities,
the advancement of Canada’s goals related to environmental protection, climate adaptation, and
reconciliation with Indigenous peoples.




                                                      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy             25
     The Government of Canada recognizes that off-grid mining operations are heavily dependent on GHG
     emitting energy sources for power, such as diesel, largely due to the lack of access to energy grids in
     Canada’s northern and remote regions. Potential strategic investments in green energy infrastructure
     would improve the environmental performance and sustainability of critical mineral development,
     by integrating renewable and alternative energy solutions throughout the mineral value chain. These
     potential investments would drive the industry’s competitiveness by reducing energy costs, while
     advancing climate action by reducing the carbon footprint of industrial activities in environmentally
     sensitive regions. They would also support improved quality of life and energy security for primarily
     Indigenous communities in isolated and remote regions.

     In regions with high critical mineral potential, there is a need address gaps in enabling energy
     infrastructure. Addressing these gaps could be achieved through a range of investments including
     small-scale green energy projects, leveraging, and expanding existing energy network capacity
     (e.g., hydroelectricity generation and transmission lines), or by enabling innovative technologies
     to decarbonize mineral development activities and reduce dependence on fossil fuels (e.g., wind,
     hydrogen, small modular reactors). Given their lack of grid connectivity, northern and remote mining
     operations are ideal for the integration of renewable and alternative energy sources to support
     the electrification of mines, including wind, solar, hydrogen, and energy storage solutions. In
     addition, some Canadian jurisdictions are looking into the potential of small modular reactor (SMRs)
     technologies to fill energy supply needs of mine sites and communities, in addition to carbon capture,
     utilization, and storage (CCUS) technology to reduce carbon emissions from existing energy systems.
     Renewable and alternative energy solutions represent a strategic opportunity to advance Canada’s
     critical mineral resources, while improving environmental performance by cutting GHG emissions.

     Finally, Canada’s geography and underdeveloped land-based infrastructure across northern regions
     create logistical challenges for industrial development and access to domestic and international
     markets. Transportation infrastructure is a major catalyst for critical mineral development, particularly
     in northern and remote areas. New infrastructure investments aimed at unlocking new mineral
     projects in resource-rich regions — including roads, rail, and ports — are needed to help Canada’s
     mining industry provide the minerals and metals required to reach net zero by 2050, in consultation
     with Indigenous peoples and local communities. Enhancing Canada’s transportation infrastructure
     in northern and remote regions represents a strategic opportunity to support broader economic
     growth objectives, Canada’s Arctic sovereignty and national security, and reconciliation with
     Indigenous peoples.

     With critical minerals playing an integral role in supporting the global green energy transition,
     Canadians expect the impacts of development on the environment to be managed responsibly.
     Development impacts may include increased GHG emissions, loss of biodiversity and impacts to
     freshwater and sensitive land-based and aquatic ecosystems. One-third of global peatlands are
     located in Canada, spread over 1.1 million square kilometres or about 12% of Canada’s land area.
     These wetland ecosystems have been identified as a key nature-based climate solution that act as
     a natural carbon sink, and maintaining their integrity is essential to meeting national climate targets.
     Concerns have also been raised over the long-term release of carbon resulting from disturbance
     of peatlands, and the estimated 20-year timeframe to rehabilitate these wetland ecosystems. The
     Government of Canada recognizes that there is a need to ensure that development includes measures
     to mitigate these potential environmental impacts and ensure that Canada’s critical minerals sector is
     developed sustainably.




26      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Summary and Next Steps
  ¤ Budget 2022 proposed $1.5 billion for infrastructure development for critical mineral supply
    chains, with a focus on priority deposits.

  ¤ Strategic infrastructure investments in green energy and transportation are required to unlock
    critical mineral regions, while also improving environmental performance and driving emissions
    reductions in existing operations through electrification – enabling competitive development
    of Canada’s critical mineral resources. Potential investments would compliment existing clean
    energy and transportation programming, and consider alignment with other strategic federal
    investment mechanisms.

  ¤ Existing federal programming, such as the CIB, NTCF and SREPS, can help complement the
    Strategy’s infrastructure investments.



4. Advancing Reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples

The Government of Canada’s efforts to advance critical mineral development will be based on
respect for Aboriginal and treaty rights, as well as meaningful engagement, partnership, and
collaboration with First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples and governments. The development
of critical mineral value chains presents a significant opportunity to grow the Indigenous
economy through jobs, businesses, services, and ownership opportunities. As Canada seeks
to advance reconciliation with Indigenous peoples, we recognize that this Strategy will need to
evolve to address key initiatives, like the implementation of UNDA, and emerging priorities from
Indigenous partners.



Indigenous peoples are the stewards, rights holders, and in many cases, title holders to the land
upon which mineral resources are located. Historically, Indigenous peoples have not always
benefited from natural resource development on their traditional territories, and some developments
have caused adverse environmental and social impacts on communities. However, over the past
few decades, Indigenous participation in the mining sector has grown significantly and there has
been a greater emphasis on advancing development in a socially, economically, and environmentally
responsible manner. With the majority of current and future critical mineral projects located on or
near Indigenous territories, the Government of Canada is dedicated to working with Indigenous
peoples to invest in their leadership in critical mineral value chains and to ensure that they benefit
from these projects through meaningful engagement and partnership with industry and governments.
It is important that decisions related to critical mineral development not only advance and respect
Aboriginal and treaty rights to lands, territories, and resources, but also embody Indigenous land
stewardship principles and self-determined priorities of communities.

Indigenous peoples are important partners in Canada’s mining industry. The mining sector is the
second-largest private sector employer of Indigenous peoples in Canada and provides skills and
employment training, contracting opportunities, job guarantees, and community investments. Many
Indigenous-owned businesses are involved in the mining supply and services sector, delivering
goods and services to mining companies and generating significant economic benefits for their
communities. We have heard from mining stakeholders that industry is committed to building



                                                    The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy              27
     strong, progressive relationships with First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples across Canada through
     early engagement, collaboration, and the development of mutually beneficial partnerships. This
     commitment is supported by industry efforts to respond to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s
     Call to Action 92 for the corporate sector by developing protocols related to engagement and
     relationship-building with Indigenous communities. It is also supported by the fact that more
     than 500 agreements between Indigenous communities and industry have been signed since the
     year 2000.

     While the Government of Canada recognizes that critical mineral development in Canada offers an
     opportunity to build on successful Indigenous-industry partnerships, we know that the sector must
     continue to evolve and create new pathways to help advance reconciliation with Indigenous peoples.
     We have heard serious concerns regarding the social, environmental, and gendered risks of critical
     mineral development on or near Indigenous communities, the potential impacts and cumulative
     effects of critical mineral development on Aboriginal and treaty rights, and the health and safety of
     Indigenous peoples, as well as lands, waters, wildlife, and local food sources. Additionally, Indigenous
     peoples continue to face systemic barriers to their participation and leadership in the sector. Barriers
     commonly cited include economic, business, and community skills and capacity gaps; a need for
     more Indigenous-led research and inclusion of traditional knowledge; access to competitive capital
     for equity participation; and, a need for inclusion in planning, participating, and decision-making
     throughout the project lifecycle from exploration to reclamation. The Government of Canada will work
     collaboratively with Indigenous peoples to address these barriers and ensure that benefits are derived
     from responsible critical mineral development.



     Indigenous Engagement on this Strategy
     Through submissions and discussions with First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples on the Critical
     Minerals Strategy, we heard that additional meaningful engagement is required to ensure that
     Indigenous peoples’ priorities and concerns with respect to critical mineral value chains in Canada
     are reflected in the implementation of this Strategy. Canada is at an important juncture for advancing
     reconciliation, including in the minerals and metals sector, which must be done through ongoing
     dialogue and impactful, collaborative actions with Indigenous peoples. While this Strategy is a high-
     level frame for current critical mineral investments and principles, the Government of Canada is
     committed to developing specific actions in collaboration with Indigenous communities over the
     course of the Strategy’s implementation under four broad themes:

        ¤ Facilitating meaningful Indigenous participation and partnerships in critical minerals projects;

        ¤ Respecting Aboriginal and treaty rights;

        ¤ Advancing economic reconciliation; and,

        ¤ Supporting safe and secure communities throughout the critical mineral project lifecycle.




28      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Indigenous peoples should be able to derive equitable economic benefits throughout the critical
mineral value chain — from mineral exploration and extraction to material processing, manufacturing,
and recycling. Indigenous leaders across Canada have signalled that there is strong interest in
seeking ownership stakes in critical mineral projects and related infrastructure (e.g., renewable energy
generation, transmission options, community-focused infrastructure, and roads). However, the high
borrowing costs required to obtain financial capital can make equity ownership in critical mineral
projects uneconomical for many Indigenous groups.

The Government of Canada will work with Indigenous communities and industry to address
these challenges and ensure that Indigenous peoples are active partners throughout the entire
value chain of responsible critical mineral development in Canada. The government will continue
to honour treaty obligations; uphold the duty to consult, with the aim of securing the free, prior,
and informed consent of Indigenous peoples; and, move beyond legal obligations by strengthening
Indigenous participation and leadership in the sector. In addition:

   ¤ Budget 2022 allocates $103.4 million to advance economic reconciliation through enhanced
     readiness to meaningfully participate in the natural resource sector, including at least
     $25 million to support Indigenous participation and early engagement in the Critical Minerals
     Strategy. Funding is available through the Indigenous Natural Resource Partnerships Program,
     which funds activities that help increase the economic participation of Indigenous peoples in
     natural resource projects. The Program is accessible to Indigenous communities, businesses,
     and organizations.

   ¤ The Government of Canada is developing a National Benefits Sharing Framework to help
     ensure Indigenous communities directly benefit from major resource projects in their territories.
     Engagement on the development of the Framework is ongoing. The federal government is
     committed to co-developing aspects of the Framework with Indigenous peoples, communities,
     and businesses to ensure it reflects Indigenous priorities.

   ¤ The federal government will leverage Indigenous labour market programs to provide
     Indigenous skills training and employment support, such as the Skills and Partnership Fund,
     while continuing to foster mineral literacy partnerships with Indigenous communities and
     organizations to support greater Indigenous participation in mining through the Canadian
     Minerals and Metals Plan.

   ¤ Recognizing the value of Indigenous science and knowledge systems and their role in
     broadening our collective understanding of Canada’s natural resources, the federal
     government will continue to prioritize robust, meaningful engagement with
     Indigenous communities for geoscientific information and research, drawing on
     Traditional Knowledge.

   ¤ The Government of Canada will also update its existing guidance on Indigenous participation
     in mining and its map of Indigenous mining agreements to foster a mutually beneficial climate
     between Indigenous peoples and industry.

   ¤ In 2022-23, Natural Resources Canada will convene a roundtable on the Missing and
     Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls (MMIWG) five Calls for Justice with Indigenous and
     industry partners, including the mineral and metal sectors, to learn about the actions industry
     is already taking or plans to take to increase safety and security and ensure equitable benefits
     for Indigenous women, girls, and 2SLGBTQQIA+ people.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy             29
     Canada’s Commitments and Legal Obligations to Indigenous Peoples
     Aboriginal and treaty rights are recognized and affirmed in Section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982,
     and recognition of these inherent rights are also a part of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights
     of Indigenous Peoples Act, which is being implemented by the Government of Canada. Treaties
     between the Crown (represented by the Government of Canada and/or the provincial or territorial
     government) and Indigenous peoples are solemn agreements that set out promises, obligations,
     and benefits for all parties, and serve to reconcile pre-existing Indigenous sovereignty with assumed
     Crown sovereignty and to define Aboriginal rights guaranteed by section 35 of the Constitution.
     Modern treaties (those signed since 1975) often include provisions related to resource development
     opportunities, such as clarity around ownership of surface and/or sub-surface rights, and participation
     and decision-making in land and resource management (e.g., land use planning and permitting). Most
     recently, Canada has affirmed respect for rights and governance arrangements set out in Inuit-Crown
     treaties in the Inuit Nunangat Policy.

     The duty to consult is a constitutional obligation of the Crown rooted in the honour of the Crown and
     the protection of section 35 rights. When conducting critical mineral exploration and development
     activities, the potential for adverse impacts to Indigenous and treaty rights must be considered,
     mitigated, and where appropriate, accommodated. As this Strategy is implemented, the Government
     of Canada will continue to not only uphold its duty to consult obligations for critical
     minerals projects but will also seek opportunities to go actively beyond this duty to ensure
     that Indigenous peoples are active partners in critical mineral development through early,
     meaningful, and ongoing engagement on projects.

     The UNDA came into force on June 21, 2021. The Declaration helps to affirm the minimum standards
     for the survival, dignity, and well-being of Indigenous peoples. The implementation of UNDA has the
     potential to make meaningful and positive change to the ways that Indigenous peoples, communities,
     and businesses participate in natural resource development, including critical mineral value chains
     in Canada. The federal government engaged with National Indigenous Organizations, Indigenous
     communities, Indigenous rights holders, industry, and other relevant stakeholders to help inform the
     development of a Draft Action Plan, which has a legislated deadline for release in 2023. These efforts
     will better inform the Government of Canada on what it means to meaningfully partner and engage
     with Indigenous peoples in natural resource development. Actions under the Canadian Critical
     Minerals Strategy will comply with the Government of Canada’s implementation of UNDA.

     The Government of Canada understands the importance of environmental protection and stewardship
     in Indigenous communities and expects mining activities to include measures to avoid and mitigate
     negative environmental impacts, where possible, to ensure sustainable mining development.
     Balancing environmental considerations while protecting Indigenous peoples’ lands, water, wildlife,
     and resources help advance the UNDA’s commitments by mitigating cumulative effects within
     traditional territory.

     In discussions with Indigenous partners, the Government of Canada has heard serious concerns
     about community safety with respect to critical mineral development. These concerns are also
     reflected in the 2019 Final Report of the National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous
     Women and Girls which includes five Calls for Justice specific to the extractive and development
     industries. These Calls for Justice highlight the need to ensure safety and equity for Indigenous
     women, girls, and 2SLGBTQQIA+ people. The transition to clean technologies presents an opportunity
     to ensure Indigenous women and 2SLGBTQQIA+ people are included in decision-making processes
     related to major natural resource projects going forward, including sustainable critical mineral
     development projects.



30      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Summary and Next Steps
    ¤ Funding is available through the Indigenous Natural Resource Partnerships program to support
      Indigenous participation and early engagement in the Critical Minerals Strategy.

    ¤ The Government of Canada will continue to engage with Indigenous governments,
      organizations, and communities on the implementation of the Strategy. This will include hosting
      critical-minerals-related roundtables and workshops in prospective regions, and meeting with
      Indigenous partners to address their critical mineral priorities.

    ¤ Engagement on key initiatives, such as the implementation of UNDA, the development
      of a National Benefits Sharing Framework, and the Federal Pathway to Address Missing
      and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and 2SLGBTQQIA+ People, will also inform the
      implementation of the Critical Minerals Strategy. The Government of Canada will work
      with Indigenous partners to revise this section of the Strategy based on feedback from
      these engagements.

    ¤ The Government of Canada will work with Indigenous communities to address systemic
      barriers and ensure that Indigenous peoples are active partners throughout the entire value
      chain of responsible critical mineral development in Canada.

    ¤ The Government of Canada will continue to honour treaty obligations, to uphold the duty to
      consult, with the aim of securing the free, prior, and informed consent of Indigenous peoples,
      and to move beyond legal obligations by strengthening Indigenous participation and leadership
      in the sector.



5. Growing a Diverse Workforce and Prosperous Communities
Developing Canada’s critical minerals and associated value chains will create jobs and prosperity for
communities across the country, including Indigenous communities. The growth of a highly skilled
and more representative workforce in the minerals and metals sector will ensure that Canadians can
capitalize on these opportunities. Moreover, as lower-emission industries come online, workers from
other extractive sectors, like oil and gas, will be able to use their transferable skills to secure high-quality
jobs in critical mineral exploration, extraction, processing, manufacturing, and recycling.

The Mining Industry Human Resources Council forecasts that up to 113,000 new workers will be needed
by 2030 to meet new demand and replace those workers anticipated to exit the mining workforce. Skill
requirements in the minerals and metals sector will also continue to change as the industry adopts
and makes use of emerging technologies, such as AI systems, automation, and robotics, while critical
minerals demand creates new opportunities midstream in processing, manufacturing, and recycling.


Critical Mineral Jobs Are More Diverse Than You Think
Jobs in the critical minerals sector exist at each stage of the mineral development cycle, from
exploration to mine closure, and along the value chain. They include, but are not limited to geoscientists,
mining engineers, and metallurgists, workers skilled in computer technology, heavy equipment
operation, emerging technologies like AI and automation, minerals processing, and automotive
assembly. As we build the workforce for the future, it will be vital that Canadians are aware of the diverse
opportunities available in the sector.



                                                        The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy                    31
     Diversity and inclusion will be a driving force in the recruitment and retention of a talented workforce,
     capable of providing the technical and leadership skills necessary to support critical mineral
     development in Canada. Research indicates that a workforce that reflects the diversity of Canada,
     especially in leadership roles, is linked to better business results both in terms of profitability and in
     the creation of long-term value. In addition, critical mineral projects provide an opportunity to increase
     Indigenous employment and participation in natural resource development, especially in northern,
     remote, and isolated communities. More than 600 Indigenous communities are located near major
     minerals and metals projects and over 200 Indigenous businesses supply Canada’s extractive industry.

     To fully realize the opportunities available in the critical minerals sector, the federal government is
     leveraging a wide range of actions and initiatives, including:

         ¤ Federal skills and training initiatives to help institutions and employers train and re-
           skill people, and to help the workforce grow and meet the demand driven by critical
           minerals. Examples of these initiatives include the Sectoral Workforce Solutions Program,
           the Indigenous Skills and Employment Training Program, and the Skills and Partnership Fund.
           These programs support activities that will help forecast future skills requirements; build talent
           for the green economy, including the development of green skills training for workers; grow the
           Indigenous workforce; and, increase participation of equity-deserving groups. These initiatives
           will be complemented by new federal investments aimed at ensuring Canadians have the skills
           they need to capitalize on critical minerals opportunities, including the establishment of the
           Sustainable Jobs Training Centre and the Sustainable Jobs Secretariat. The federal government
           will work with provinces, territories and industry associations to help Canadians identify
           and access existing training, upskilling, and re-skilling initiatives targeting the minerals and
           metals sector.

         ¤ Assisting youth in developing skills and transitioning into the labour market. Through the
           collaboration of multiple federal departments, the Youth Employment and Skills Strategy (YESS)
           helps young people (15–30 years old) develop their skills and transition into the labour market.
           For example, Canada Summer Jobs, a program under YESS, is responsive to national and local
           priorities in the labour market, which could include the critical minerals sector.

         ¤ Actions to help mobilize a more diverse and inclusive minerals and metals sector. For
           example, the federal government will continue to support efforts to attract, train, and retain
           women, in line with the Canadian Minerals and Metals Plans’ aspirational target of achieving
           30% female participation in the mining workforce by 2030. In addition, Canada will facilitate the
           economic immigration of talented workers to communities with critical mineral projects through
           mechanisms like the Rural and Northern Immigration Pilot program, while ensuring alignment
           with existing provincial and territorial initiatives and community priorities.

         ¤ Partnership opportunities with provinces and territories, Indigenous-led organizations,
           and several stakeholders, including universities, colleges, and specialized training
           institutions, to create greater awareness and understanding of the minerals and metals
           sector, sometimes referred to as mineral literacy. These partnerships would also encourage
           enrolment in mining curriculum, skilled trades, and training programs for youths, Indigenous
           peoples, women, and new and racialized Canadians by socializing the significant role critical
           minerals play in the green energy transition and showcasing the diversity of careers available in
           the sector.




32       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
   ¤ Continued collaboration on initiatives under the Canadian Minerals and Metals Plan with
     Indigenous business leaders and organizations, as well as provinces and territories, to
     grow opportunities for Indigenous and rural SMEs through the local supply of goods and
     services for critical minerals development projects.

Canada is committed to a just transition to a net-zero emissions future and supporting the creation
of jobs to achieve it. We want to help workers and communities thrive in the new economy, while
fostering a diverse industrial sector that includes Indigenous peoples, women, Black and racialized
Canadians, people with disabilities, and members of the 2SLGBTQQIA+ community.


Summary and Next Steps
   ¤ Federal skills and training initiatives will help the minerals and metals sector grow its workforce
     and meet the increased demand for critical minerals.

   ¤ Diversity and inclusion will play a central part in these efforts, with the federal government
     continuing to support efforts to attract, train, and retain employees, including women, youth,
     Indigenous peoples, and other equity-seeking groups.

   ¤ The federal government will continue to seek out partnerships and collaboration opportunities
     with provinces and territories, Indigenous organizations, universities, and training institutions to
     increase mineral literacy.




6. Strengthening Global Leadership and Security
The concentration of critical mineral production in a few countries overseas that use non-market-based
practices raises the risk of supply chain disruptions and inflated prices of key minerals and materials
for Canada and its allies. The risk inherent to this concentration of production is being accentuated
by geopolitical events, which further fuels supply uncertainties. In addition, some jurisdictions have
not prioritized high environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards, including in the resource
development activities they undertake in other countries. As the global economy moves towards
net-zero, advanced manufacturers are seeking to ensure their supply chains are carbon competitive,
environmentally sustainable, and respectful of human rights. As a trusted and reliable supplier of
responsibly sourced mineral and metal products, Canada is well positioned to be a leader in the
responsible, inclusive, and sustainable production of critical minerals and resilient value chains. We
have a role to play in powering the green and digital economy, both at home and around the world, in a
manner that avoids a race to the bottom for the lowest cost output.

Interest in pursuing collective action on critical minerals to support the global green energy transition
is growing within several key multilateral organizations, including the Organisation for Economic
cooperation and Development (OECD), the G7/G20, the International Energy Agency (IEA), the World
Bank, the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), the Intergovernmental Forum on Mining,
Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI), and the Energy Resource Governance Initiative (ERGI). Enhancing Canada’s participation in
these forums will help strengthen the linkage between critical minerals and the energy transition,
advance Canada’s commitment to responsible supply chains, and further its role as the global leader in
responsible and sustainable mining.




                                                      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               33
     Bilateral Cooperation on Critical Minerals
     Since January 2020, Canada has formalized bilateral cooperation agreements on critical minerals with
     the United States, the European Union, and Japan, and is actively engaging with additional allies such
     as the United Kingdom and the Republic of Korea. Canada needs to deliver on its growing number of
     bilateral commitments and engagements without compromising its ability to deliver on domestically
     focused programs and priorities.




     This Strategy will work to ensure international engagement activities related to critical minerals align
     with the Government of Canada’s strategic objectives, including Canada’s Indo-Pacific Strategy.
     It will address broad geopolitical and industrial priorities for Canada’s international engagements
     to advance secure critical minerals supply chains, including potential risks and regional gaps. This
     work will align with the Government’s commitment in the 2022 Fall Economic Statement to ensure
     that Canada remains a first-choice destination for businesses to invest and create jobs in light of
     investments made by other governments, such as the United States through the Inflation Reduction
     Act and Infrastructure Bill.

     There is growing interest to pursue collective action to secure critical mineral value chains across
     the globe with allies. To ensure enhanced sustainability practices, we will leverage our international
     partnerships to improve Responsible Business Conduct, ESG standards, and best practices in
     critical minerals-related activities, including human rights and reconciliation considerations, as
     a key objective under the Strategy. This includes enhancing the interoperability of systems and
     standards, increased recognition of ESG performances, and international collaboration on traceability
     technologies to prevent products from conflict, child labour, and environmentally poor operations from
     entering the supply chains.

     Additional collective actions under existing and new partnerships can further align policies and
     regulatory approaches, address technical challenges through joint R&D, facilitate trade and reduce
     barriers, encourage new investment opportunities in Canada, and reinforce supply chain security and
     stability. These actions include

         ¤ an allocation of $70 million in Budget 2022 for global partnerships to promote Canadian
           mining leadership, such as promoting ESG standards and supporting bilateral and multilateral
           critical mineral commitments;

         ¤ leveraging Canada’s new Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) Strategy, launched in April
           2022, to continue enhancing Canada’s regulation abroad and strengthening the global RBC
           ecosystem. We are contributing to a rules-based international system that advances Canada’s
           values, integrating RBC in bilateral and multilateral agreements and engagements, as well as
           fostering an enabling environment for RBC; and,

         ¤ launching an initiative and leveraging existing frameworks, such as Towards Sustainable
           Mining, to drive the global uptake of “nature-forward” mining practices that minimize and
           mitigate environmental impacts and work to return the land to its natural state.




34      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Summary and Next Steps
   ¤ Canada is well positioned to be a leader in the responsible, inclusive, and sustainable
     production of critical minerals. The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy will align with the
     Government of Canada’s strategic objectives, including Canada’s Indo-Pacific Strategy, and
     ensure that Canada remains competitive globally.

   ¤ Canada will continue to leverage its international partnerships to improve Responsible Business
     Conduct; ESG standards and best practices in critical-mineral-related activities, including
     enhancing the interoperability of systems and standards; recognition of ESG performances;
     and, collaboration on traceability initiatives including studies and technologies.




Critical Minerals and National Security
Critical minerals are strategic assets that contribute to Canada’s prosperity and national security. They
are essential to military and security technology supply chains for national security, as well as other
value chains of critical importance to Canada’s economic security and prosperity.

A key challenge is the global reliance on non-market economies for the supply of critical minerals, and
for the transformation of minerals and metals through processing and production of downstream value-
added products. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the need to secure and diversify critical
mineral supply chains, given that key operations are located in only a handful of regions globally,
leaving them exposed to economic disruptions and predatory actions by non-market economies. Non-
market economies are taking increasingly aggressive steps to further cement their control of critical
minerals markets and achieve foreign policy goals. Geopolitical events such as war and trade disputes
are also increasingly affecting global mineral markets, adding to price volatility and supply uncertainty.
Heightened trade barriers and weaker access to markets create bottlenecks along supply chains and
result in trade disruptions.

Reliable market-based access to sustainable sources of critical minerals, especially in northern and
remote locations, is a strategic and economic security consideration for Canada and its allies. We are
working towards securing our supply chains by:

   ¤ Taking steps to ensure that Canada’s foreign investment review regime is positioned to
     respond to the evolving threat landscape. Foreign investment fuels innovation and helps
     businesses develop, enabling economic growth that benefits all Canadians. At the same time,
     the federal government recognizes that some investments into Canada may be motivated
     by non-commercial imperatives that are contrary to our interests and could be injurious to
     our national security. To address this risk, the Government of Canada issued a new policy to
     clarify the treatment of foreign investment by state-owned enterprises under the Investment
     Canada Act.

   ¤ Working with like-minded partners through bilateral and multilateral forums to align
     policies and promote common standards, including strategic consideration of broader
     geopolitical and industrial priorities that advance supply chain resiliency and create
     partnerships with allied countries on global value chain development.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               35
     ¤ Engaging with our national security agencies and other federal government
       departments, provinces and territories, and industry stakeholders to examine additional
       measures to improve critical mineral supply chain security. Geopolitical, technological,
       and competitiveness considerations are constantly evolving. Our toolkit must also evolve to
       make sure Canada is well positioned to seize economic opportunities in the critical minerals
       space while protecting our national security.




36   The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
The growing global demand for critical minerals represents a generational opportunity for Canada.
Critical minerals are the foundation on which modern technology is built. Simply put, there is no
green energy transition without critical minerals, which is why their supply chain resilience is an
increasing priority for advanced economies. Every stage of the critical mineral value chain presents an
opportunity for Canada, from exploration to recycling and everything in between.

Canada’s approach to critical minerals builds on extensive public and Indigenous consultations,
including comments received on the Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy Discussion Paper (from June
14 to September 16, 2022), as well as consultations held for the Canadian Minerals and Metals Plan
(CMMP). In addition, evidence and recommendations were considered from a series of engagements
and roundtables with industry and Indigenous peoples, as well as recommendations included in the
June 2021 report of the House of Commons Standing Committee on Natural Resources, From Mineral
Exploration to Advanced Manufacturing: Developing Value Chains for Critical Minerals in Canada, and
the March 2022 report of the House of Commons Standing Committee on Industry and Technology,
The Neo Lithium Acquisition: Canada’s National Security Review Process in Action.

This Strategy is intended to be an evergreen document — forward-looking, iterative, and long-term.
Its successful implementation will require a coordinated and multi-pronged approach, in collaboration
with multiple partners and stakeholders. The following strategic partnerships and engagement forums
will help inform implementation of the Strategy over the long term:

   ¤ Federal-Provincial-Territorial (FPT) Task Team on Critical Minerals and Battery Value Chains;

   ¤ Ongoing engagement with Indigenous peoples via roundtables, workshops, and meetings on
     Indigenous priorities related to critical mineral value chains and other cross-cutting topics (e.g.,
     the National Benefit Sharing Framework;

   ¤ Northern Regulatory Initiative Engagement;

   ¤ Regional Energy and Resource Tables;

   ¤ Industry Critical Minerals Roundtables;

   ¤ Canada-U.S. Joint Action Plan on Critical Minerals Collaboration;

   ¤ Critical Minerals Working Group under the Canada-Japan Energy Policy Dialogue;

   ¤ Canada-EU Strategic Partnership on Raw Materials;

   ¤ Government of Canada FDI Working Group.

The CMCE will continue to lead Canada’s whole-of-government, multi-stakeholder approach to critical
mineral development, including the ongoing development and coordination of policies and initiatives
under this Strategy. Ongoing engagement with partners and stakeholders will inform future iterations
of this evergreen document.




                                                      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               37
     ANNEX A: Canada’s Critical Minerals List




38    The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
ANNEX B: Domestic Value Chains with High
Growth Potential
An Exploration to Recycling approach to critical minerals refers to building capacity at each stage
of the value chain, from exploration to recycling, and everything in between. A value chain is the set
of activities that add value (e.g., product or process innovation) at each stage of the production and
delivery of a quality product to a customer, and that maximize a company’s competitive advantage. A
supply chain, which is a related concept, is concerned with the logistics and organizations involved in
getting the product to market.

Due to factors like geopolitical risks, ESG, and cost considerations, many companies are increasingly
prioritizing vertical integration and having as much of the value chain located in close geographic
proximity to their primary operations. An EV manufacturer, for example, will benefit if all stages of
battery production occur relatively close to its plant, with transparent and trusted suppliers, operating
in a stable economic and political climate.

The value chain for critical minerals includes five segments:

    1. Upstream — Exploration: Mineral exploration is the search for materials in the earth’s crust
       that occur in concentrations and quantities high enough to be extracted and processed for
       profit. Exploration covers a wide range of activities, including reconnaissance surveys (e.g.,
       aerial photography, airborne geophysical surveys), prospecting and ground surveys, drilling
       and trenching, project engineering, and feasibility studies.

         Companies are actively exploring for critical minerals and developing critical minerals
         projects in Canada. From 2010 to 2020, a total of $66.4 billion2 was invested in critical mineral
         exploration and development projects in Canada, accounting for 45% of total spending.
         However, except for base metals and uranium, critical minerals (especially battery minerals)
         account for a small but recently growing share of total exploration spending.

         The federal, provincial, and territorial governments support mineral exploration by providing
         geoscience in the form of geological maps, regional geophysical surveys, and other scientific
         information. The Geological Survey of Canada (GSC) manages several national geoscience
         research initiatives that support critical mineral exploration, including the Geo-Mapping for
         Energy and Minerals-GeoNorth program and the Targeted Geoscience Initiative.

         The Government of Canada can improve its geoscience capacity by combining and
         overlaying geological potential with economic feasibility, ESG priorities, and infrastructure
         data at an early stage to identify the exploration projects that offer the greatest benefits
         and lowest risks. Better data, platforms for large-scale data analysis and visualization,
         and predictive tools deployed as early as possible in the mining cycle would also facilitate
         project planning, improve investor confidence, and create efficiencies in the regulatory and
         permitting processes.




2
 Based on Natural Resources Canada’s analysis using data from the Survey of Mineral Exploration, Deposit Appraisal and
Mine Complex Development

                                                               The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy                   39
     2. Upstream — Mining (or Extraction): Mining is the process of extracting minerals and/or other
        useful materials from the earth. The two main modes of mining are surface and underground
        mining. The mode of mining depends on the size, shape, and ore grade or mineral richness
        of the deposit. While specific operations may differ, they generally involve the use of
        heavy machinery for drilling, blasting, excavating, loading, and hauling the minerals away
        for processing.

        With approximately 200 active mines across the country, Canada is a major producer of critical
        minerals. It is the global leader in the production of potash and ranks among the top five global
        producers of aluminum, indium, niobium, platinum group metals, titanium concentrate, and
        uranium. The mining sector is also the second-largest private sector employer of Indigenous
        peoples in Canada and provides skills and employment training, contracting opportunities, job
        guarantees, and community investments.

        Mining is typically very capital-intensive, and new mines can take anywhere from 5 to 25 years
        to become operational. Mining companies, particularly junior companies, face the challenge
        of raising the private investment required to conduct their operations. In rural, northern, and
        remote regions, infrastructure gaps also hamper mineral development. To boost or develop
        new mine production, and to do so in a cost-effective and environmentally responsible
        manner, the Government of Canada will look for opportunities to partner with the private
        sector in financing new projects, support building the necessary infrastructure for priority
        deposits, advance innovation to improve efficiency and environmental performance, strengthen
        Indigenous engagement, and streamline regulatory and permitting processes. The mining
        industry is investing in green technology to lower the environmental footprint, efficiency, and
        safety of new and existing mines.

     3. Midstream — Processing, Refining and Metallurgy (e.g., semi-finished inputs and
        materials): Metallurgy refers to the study of metals and alloys, and specifically, the science of
        turning them into forms suitable for practical use. There are three steps in extracting metals
        from their ores or mine waste: mineral processing, chemical extraction, and refining. The
        mineral processing stage treats the ore to eliminate as much of the waste portion as possible,
        and includes two main steps: comminution (e.g., crushing and grinding), and separation.
        Chemical extraction often uses high-temperature processes, such as smelting or aqueous
        solutions, to process these valuable metal-bearing solids and transform them into intermediate
        compounds that are refined to their elemental or metallic state.

        Canada has a long tradition in copper, zinc, and nickel mining, smelting, and processing.
        Mining of these metals in Canada comes mostly from sulphide deposits, which turn
        concentrates (either for exports or for processing within Canada) into intermediate or refined
        metal products. Base metals refineries are key sources of minor metals deemed critical,
        including germanium, indium, and tellurium. Canada is also a producer of aluminum and
        refined cobalt. Cobalt is produced primarily as a co-product of nickel mining and processing.

        For many critical minerals such as lithium, Canada has no domestic refined production.
        However, several companies are investing in innovative technologies to extract lithium from
        brines. Canada has significant rare earth resources and advanced projects and is developing a
        first-of-its-kind processing and separation facility in Saskatchewan.

        The Government can focus on building Canada’s midstream capacity to produce the
        materials and value-added products needed for clean technologies, such as lithium, graphite,
        nickel, cobalt, copper, and rare earth elements. This will connect upstream and downstream




40   The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
   components, and allow Canada to build new production capacity, capture more value,
   expand economic benefits and jobs in Canada, attract investment, and boost our domestic
   capabilities, all while helping to meet growing global demand.

   Semi-manufactured products include cathodes and anodes, which are components that
   make their way into lithium-ion cells and battery packs that are later integrated into end-use
   applications like EVs. These are processed from minerals such as graphite, lithium, nickel, and
   cobalt. Semi-manufactured products such as these are an important growth opportunity for
   Canadian companies.

4. Downstream — Component Manufacturing and Clean, Digital, and Advanced Technology
   Production (e.g., ZEV manufacturing, aircraft, and semiconductors): Once processed, the
   metals make their way into any number of products. Separated rare earth oxides that were
   converted into metals can be combined to create permanent magnets that are important
   components of EV motors and wind turbines.

   Canada has strong automotive and aerospace manufacturing sectors. Ontario represents
   one of the two largest automotive manufacturing jurisdictions in North America. It has
   the distinction of serving as Canadian headquarters for five global original equipment
   manufacturers: Stellantis, Ford, General Motors, Honda, and Toyota. Together, these
   companies typically assemble about two million light vehicles each year at their Canadian
   plants. They are supplied by an ecosystem of nearly 700 parts suppliers across the country.
   Canada is also home to many leading aerospace companies such as CAE, Bombardier, Pratt
   & Whitney Canada, De Havilland Canada, Airbus Canada, Bell Textron Canada Ltd., and MHI
   RJ who are global leaders in their respective markets. Canada also has world-class aerospace
   suppliers who are well integrated into global supply chains.

   The green transformation of the automotive and aerospace sectors, which is a federal priority,
   will depend on access to critical minerals. Working with provincial partners and the private
   sector, the Government of Canada has made significant investments in attracting cell, battery,
   and EV manufacturing. The government also made significant investments in sustainable
   aviation projects, working in partnership with the private sector and the Province of Quebec.
   These types of investments in the green technologies of the future will help encourage
   upstream activities such as new mines or processing facilities.

5. Material Recovery and Recycling: Recycling is a keystone of the circular economy. It can
   relieve some pressure on primary supply and can be a more cost-effective, environmentally
   friendly alternative to opening new mines. For example, the recycling of end-of-life lithium-
   ion batteries to recover valuable minerals can also reduce primary supply requirements for
   these minerals.

   Currently, recycled mineral volumes are relatively minimal overall (except for steel, lead, copper,
   and aluminum which have higher volumes), but the International Energy Agency forecasts they
   will become much more significant by 2040.

   In Canada, critical minerals are also found in secondary and unconventional sources (e.g.,
   mine tailings, brines in oil fields). Examples of current and emerging private sector recycling
   activities and R&D research include lithium-ion recycling; recovery of titanium from oil sands
   tailings; recycling of vanadium in the steel industry in the form of scrap steel; recovery of
   magnesium from asbestos tailings; and, extraction of rare earth elements from recycled
   permanent magnets.




                                                   The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               41
           Natural Resources Canada’s Mining Value from Waste Initiative is a multifaceted program
           that works on reprocessing existing mine waste to remove the valuable minerals and metals
           important for clean technology and military applications. Mine waste includes rocks, sludge,
           slag, tailings, and other by-products, depending on the type of mines and operations. The
           program’s goal is to reduce risk and environmental liability and, at the same time, create
           economic opportunities.

     Among the critical minerals essential for priority supply chains, advanced manufacturing, clean
     technologies, and zero-emission vehicles, six hold the most significant potential for Canadian
     economic growth. These include:

     Critical Mineral     Value Chains         Major Application        Examples of Specific Products
     Lithium              Clean technologies   Batteries, glassware,    Rechargeable batteries (phones,
                          and defence          ceramics                 computers, cameras, and EVs);
                          and security                                  hydrogen fuel storage; metal alloys
                          technologies                                  (military ballistic armour; aircraft,
                                                                        bicycle, and train components);
                                                                        specialized glass and ceramics;
                                                                        drying and air conditioning
                                                                        systems.
     Graphite             Clean technologies   Batteries, fuel cells    Metal foundry lubricants, vehicle
                                               for EVs                  brake linings, metal casting wear,
                                                                        crucibles, rechargeable battery
                                                                        anodes, EV fuel cells, electrical
                                                                        motor components, frictionless
                                                                        materials, pencils.
     Nickel               Clean technologies   Stainless steel, solar   Metal alloys (steel, superalloys,
                          and advanced         panels, batteries,       non-ferrous alloys), jet and
                          manufacturing        aerospace, and           combustion engine components,
                                               defence applications     rechargeable batteries (phones,
                                                                        computers, EVs), industrial
                                                                        manufacturing machines,
                                                                        construction beams, anti-corrosive
                                                                        pipes, cookware, medical implants,
                                                                        power plant components.
     Cobalt               Clean technologies   Batteries                Battery electrodes; metal alloys;
                                                                        turbine engine components,
                                                                        automobile airbags; catalysts in the
                                                                        petroleum and chemical industries;
                                                                        drying agents for paints, varnishes,
                                                                        and inks; magnets.
     Copper               Clean technologies   Electrical and           Power transmission lines,
                          and advanced         electronics products     electrical building wiring, vehicle
                          manufacturing                                 wiring, telecommunication wiring,
                                                                        electronic components.




42      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
Critical Mineral     Value Chains          Major Application        Examples of Specific Products
Rare earth           Zero-emission         Permanent magnets        Flat screens, touch screens,
elements             vehicles              for electricity          LED lights, permanent magnets,
                                           generators and           electronic components, EV drive
                                           motors                   trains, wind turbines, aircraft
                                                                    components, vehicle components,
                                                                    speakers, steel manufacturing,
                                                                    battery anodes, chemical catalysts,
                                                                    glass manufacturing, specialized
                                                                    glass lenses.

While these minerals represent the greatest opportunity to fuel Canadian domestic manufacturing
and will be the focus of most investment, many other minerals also present significant prospects
for the future. Where critical minerals are not used solely for domestic manufacturing, there is value
to be captured by increasing exports to allies and expanding domestic refining, processing, and
components manufacturing over the medium to long term. Examples of these minerals include:

Critical Mineral      Value Chains          Major Application       Examples of Specific Products
Vanadium              Clean technologies    Alloys, batteries       Metal alloys (steel), military armour
                      and advanced                                  plating, vehicle axles, piston rods
                      manufacturing                                 and crankshafts, vanadium redox
                                                                    flow batteries, nuclear reactor
                                                                    components, manufacturing
                                                                    of superconducting magnets,
                                                                    pigments for ceramics and glass.
Gallium               Information and       Semiconductors,         Electronic circuit boards, LED
                      communications        optoelectronics         devices, semiconductors,
                                                                    specialized thermometers,
                                                                    barometric sensors, solar
                                                                    panels, blue-ray technology,
                                                                    pharmaceuticals.
Titanium              Clean technologies    Aerospace and           Colour pigments in paint, plastics,
                      and advanced          defence applications,   and paper; metal alloys (aluminum,
                      manufacturing         chemicals               steel, molybdenum); aircraft;
                                                                    spacecraft; missiles and rockets;
                                                                    non-corrosive pipes; ship and
                                                                    submarine hulls; medical implants;
                                                                    sunscreen; specialty Li-ion battery
                                                                    anode materials.
Scandium              Clean technologies    Advanced alloys         Metal alloys (aluminum);
                      and advanced          (aerospace &            commercial and military aircraft;
                      manufacturing         defence), fuel cells    rockets and vehicle components;
                                                                    high-end sports equipment;
                                                                    specialized light bulbs; solid oxide
                                                                    fuel cells; laser research.




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy              43
     Critical Mineral      Value Chains          Major Application       Examples of Specific Products
     Magnesium             Clean technologies    Aluminum alloys         Aluminum alloys (aircraft and
                           and advanced                                  automobile components);
                           manufacturing                                 iron manufacturing; flares and
                                                                         fireworks; lightweight consumer
                                                                         goods (laptops, cameras, power
                                                                         tools); fertilizer; animal feed;
                                                                         pharmaceuticals.

     Tellurium             Clean technologies    Solar power,            Metal alloys (copper and steel),
                                                 thermoelectric          solar cells, semiconductors, CDs/
                                                 devices                 DVDs, vulcanized rubber, chemical
                                                                         catalysts in oil refining.

     Zinc                  Clean technologies    Galvanizing             Rust proofing, manufacturing
                           and advanced                                  of automobiles, paints, rubber,
                           manufacturing                                 cosmetics, pharmaceuticals,
                                                                         plastics, inks, soaps, batteries,
                                                                         textiles, electronics, baby creams,
                                                                         sunscreen.

     Niobium               Clean technologies    Construction,           Metal alloys (steel), jet engines,
                           and advanced          transportation          rockets, construction beams,
                           manufacturing                                 building girders, oil rigs and
                                                                         pipelines, superconducting
                                                                         magnets, MRI scanners, NMR
                                                                         equipment, eyeglasses, titanium
                                                                         niobium oxide anode materials.

     Germanium             Information and     Optical fibres,           Fibre-optic communication
                           communications,     satellites, solar cells   networks, camera and microscope
                           clean technologies,                           lenses, infrared night vision
                           and advanced                                  systems, polymerization catalysts.
                           manufacturing

     It is also important that Canada maintain its position as a world leader in minerals like potash, uranium,
     and aluminum. These minerals are important for agriculture, nuclear energy, and diverse manufacturing
     sectors, respectively.




44      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
ANNEX C: Provincial and Territorial
Strategies and Policies
Provinces and territories also consider critical minerals development as strategic priority. Several
jurisdictions have developed critical minerals strategies, while others are in the process of developing
policies or are actively promoting this sector. The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy will address
national gaps and ensure shared benefits from core and complementary investments.




 Yukon

                                        Nunavut
                Northwest
                Territories


                                                                                     Newfoundland
                                                                                     and Labrador
 British
Columbia         Alberta               Manitoba

                                                                       Quebec


                                                      Ontario
                   Saskatchewan                                                                     Nova
                                                                                                    Scotia


                                                                                       New
                                                                                    Brunswick




                                                       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy               45
     ANNEX D: Global Cooperation on
     Critical Minerals
     Canada is seeking to build more resilient global supply chains for critical minerals by working with
     international partners to align policies, raise global economic, social, and governance (ESG) standards,
     advance joint research and development, and encourage new investment opportunities, among
     other priorities.

     The Canada-U.S. Joint Action Plan on Critical Minerals was announced on January 9, 2020,
     to advance bilateral interest in securing supply chains for the critical minerals needed in strategic
     manufacturing sectors, including communication technology, aerospace and defence, and clean
     technology. The Action Plan is guiding cooperation between officials in areas such as industry
     engagement, innovation, defence supply chains, improving information sharing on mineral resources
     and potential, and cooperation in multilateral forums. Canada already supplies many of the minerals
     deemed critical by the United States. In 2020, bilateral mineral trade was valued at $95.6 billion, with
     298 Canadian mining companies and a combined $40 billion in Canadian mining assets south of
     the border.

     The Canada-EU Strategic Partnership on Raw Materials is the primary mechanism for engaging the
     European Commission and European Union Member States in Canada’s critical mineral and battery
     value chains. The overarching objective of the partnership is to advance the value, security, and
     sustainability of trade and investment into the critical minerals and metals needed for the transition
     to a green and digital economy. Agreed areas of collaboration include the integration of raw material
     value chains; science, technology, and innovation collaboration; and, collaboration in international
     forums to advance world-class ESG criteria and standards.

     The Canada-Japan Sectoral Working Group on Critical Minerals aims to facilitate commercial
     engagement between Canadian and Japanese businesses across the critical mineral value chain;
     strengthen government-to-government information sharing; and, encourage cooperation on
     international standard-setting for critical minerals. It is part of the Canada-Japan Energy Policy
     Dialogue, where Japan is working to secure the critical mineral supply chains needed for its industrial
     base and broader green energy transition.

     Through other multilateral engagements, Canada is pursuing collective action on critical minerals
     to support the global transition to green energy and more resilient supply chains. Notable multilateral
     organizations and initiatives include the G7/G20, the International Energy Agency (IEA), the World
     Bank, the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), the Intergovernmental Forum on
     Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), and the Energy Resource Governance
     Initiative (ERGI).




46       The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
ANNEX E: Comparing Canada’s Critical
Mineral List
                                South                                 South
              Canada    EU               USA     Japan    Australia             India     UK
Commodity                      Korea                                  Africa
               (2021) (2020)            (2022)   (2019)    (2022)              (2016)   (2021)
                               (2020)                                 (2022)

Aluminum        x       x                 x                  x
Antimony        x       x        x        x         x        x                            x
Arsenic                          x        x
Barium                  x        x        x         x
Beryllium               x        x        x         x        x                   x
Bismuth         x       x        x        x         x        x                            x
Boron                   x        x                  x
Cadmium                          x
Cesium          x                x        x         x
Chromium        x                x        x         x        x          x        x
Cobalt          x       x        x        x         x        x          x                 x
Coking Coal             x                                               x
Copper          x                                                       x
Fluorspar       x       x                 x         x
Gallium         x       x        x        x         x        x                            x
Germanium       x       x        x        x         x        x                   x
Graphite        x       x                 x         x        x                   x        x
Hafnium                 x        x        x         x        x
Helium          x                                            x
Indium          x       x        x        x         x        x                            x
Iridium                                   x
Iron ore                                                                x
Lead                                                                    x
Limestone                                                                        x
Lithium         x       x        x        x         x        x          x                 x
Magnesium       x       x        x        x         x        x                            x
Manganese       x                x        x         x        x          x
Molybdenum      x                x                  x




                                                 The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy         47
                                     South                                 South
                   Canada    EU               USA     Japan    Australia             India     UK
     Commodity                      Korea                                  Africa
                    (2021) (2020)            (2022)   (2019)    (2022)              (2016)   (2021)
                                    (2020)                                 (2022)

     Nickel          x                x        x        x                    x
     Niobium         x        x       x        x        x         x                   x        x
     PGM             x        x       x        x        x         x          x                 x
     Phosphate                x       x
     Potash          x
     Rare earth      x        x       x        x        x         x          x        x        x
     elements
     group
     Rhenium                          x                 x         x                   x
     Rubidium                                  x        x
     Selenium                         x                 x
     Silicon                  x       x                 x         x                   x        x
     Strontium                x       x                 x                             x
     Tantalum        x        x       x        x        x         x                   x        x
     Tellurium       x                x        x        x                                      x
     Thallium                         x                 x
     Tin             x                x        x                                               x
     Titanium        x        x       x        x        x         x
     Tungsten        x        x       x        x        x         x                            x
     Uranium         x                                                       x
     Vanadium        x        x       x        x        x         x          x                 x
     Zinc            x                                            x          x
     Zirconium                        x        x        x         x                   x




48      The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
ANNEX F: Canadian Critical Mineral Success
Stories in 2022
NOVEMBER 2022
 ¤ Vale Canada Limited (a subsidiary of Vale S.A.) and General Motors Co., announce they
   have signed a term sheet for the long-term supply of battery grade nickel sulfate from Vale’s
   proposed plant at Bécancour, Que. Under the terms of the agreement, if the project goes
   ahead, Vale will supply battery grade nickel sulfate, equivalent to 25,000 metric tonnes per year
   of contained nickel, for use in GM’s Ultium battery cathodes which will power several kinds of
   electric vehicles.



OCTOBER 2022
 ¤ Rio Tinto and the Government of Canada announce a combined investment of $737 million,
   with the Government of Canada proposed an investment of up to $222 million through the
   Strategic Innovation Fund in Rio Tinto’s Fer et Titane’s operations over the next eight years.
   The investment will go towards decarbonizing Rio Tinto’s operations in Sorel-Tracy, Quebec.
   The partnership will support technological innovations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
   from the company’s titanium dioxide, steel and metal powders businesses by up to 70%.

 ¤ Panasonic Energy and Quebec graphite mining company Nouveau Monde Graphite enter
   a commercial framework, which included a memorandum of understanding where Panasonic
   will purchase battery grade graphite materials from Nouveau Monde once it has reached
   commercial production. Nouveau Monde also announced a $50 million investment from
   Mitsubishi, Pallinghurst, and Investissement Québec, to help the mining company achieve
   commercialization as well as the integration of its mining project and battery materials plant.

 ¤ Mercedes-Benz finalizes a supply agreement with Canadian-German start-up Rock Tech
   Lithium Inc., to secure battery grade lithium hydroxide, sourced from Rock Tech Lithium’s
   Georgia Lake lithium project in Ontario and produced from a planned lithium converter facility
   in Germany.

 ¤ Vital Metals amends its offtake agreement to increase the volume of rare earth oxide sourced
   from the company’s Nechalacho mine in the Northwest Territories and sold to Norway-based
   REEtec by 50%. In April, REEtec reached a deal with German auto parts supplier Schaeffler to
   use the rare earth metals sourced from Vital Metals for magnets used in the manufacturing of
   electric vehicles. Det’on Cho Nahanni Construction Corporation, which is 51% owned by the
   Yellowknives Dene First Nation, runs operations at the Nechalacho site. The Yellowknives Dene
   First Nation is one of the first Indigenous communities in Canada to be responsible for mineral
   extraction on their traditional territory.




                                                  The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy              49
     SEPTEMBER 2022
      ¤ LG Energy Solutions signs a binding term sheet with Electrica Battery materials (the only
        permitted cobalt sulphate facility in North America) to supply 7,000 tonnes of cobalt sulphate
        for three years, starting in 2023.

      ¤ LG Energy Solutions signs two non-binding Memorandums of Understanding with Canadian
        junior mining companies Avalon Advanced Materials Inc. and Snow Lake Resources Inc.
        for the supply of lithium hydroxide, starting in 2025. LG Energy accounts for more than 20% of
        the global electric vehicle battery market and supplies automotive companies including Tesla,
        General Motors and Volkswagen.



     AUGUST 2022
      ¤ Canadian Junior mining company Giga Metals and Mitsubishi Corporation (Japan’s largest
        trading company) agree to establish a joint venture to develop the Turnagain Nickel project in
        northern British Columbia. The joint venture involving the Hard Creek Nickel Corp., would see
        Mitsubishi have a 15% equity interest, while Giga Metals will have an 85% equity interest.

      ¤ Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz Group sign memorandums of understanding with the
        Government of Canada to deepen cooperation on electric vehicles and critical mineral
        supply chains.



     JULY 2022
      ¤ Umicore SA announces it will build a $1.5 billion cathode active material factory in Eastern
        Ontario to produce the precursor cathode active materials as well as cathode active materials
        for electric vehicle batteries. Construction is targeted to start in 2023, with operations to start
        at the end of 2025. The project is expected to create 1,000 jobs during construction and
        hundreds of permanent positions.



     JUNE 2022
      ¤ Saskatchewan Research Council (Canada’s second-largest research and technology
        organization) and Korea Mine Rehabilitation and Mineral Corp. (a state-owned corporation
        responsible for natural resource security), sign a Memorandum of Understanding for
        cooperation in the area of critical minerals, including a framework to develop a secure supply
        chain of critical minerals (particularly potash and rare earth elements).

      ¤ Piedmont Lithium and Sayona Québec announce spodumene concentrate production has
        restarted at its North American Lithium project located near Val D’Or, Quebec, following a
        successful $136 million institutional placement (announced in May 2022).

      ¤ Canadian mining company Vale completes pre-feasibility study for its proposed nickel
        sulphate project in Bécancour, Que., that, if developed, would help supply material used to
        make lithium-ion batteries.




50    The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy
 ¤ The Government of Canada says it plans to invest $100 million to minimize the carbon
   footprint and improve worker safety at BHP’s $7.5 billion Jansen Stage 1 mine in
   Saskatchewan, the first new major potash project in Canada in more than 50 years.



MAY 2022
 ¤ Vale and Tesla confirm a multi-year agreement that will see Vale supply Tesla with low-carbon
   nickel (to be used in manufacturing lithium-ion batteries) from its Long Harbour refinery in
   Newfoundland, while the raw material will be sourced from Vale’s Voisey Bay mine in Labrador.

 ¤ Automaker Stellantis announces the company’s assembly plants in Windsor, Ont., and
   Brampton, Ont., will receive $3.6 billion (including up to $529 million in federal funding) in
   retooling and modernization upgrades as the company works to transform the plants into
   flexible, multi-energy vehicle assembly facilities ready to produce electric vehicles.

 ¤ Nano One announces it has entered a binding agreement to acquire all outstanding shares of
   Johnson Matthey Battery Materials, a Canadian entity located in Quebec, for approximately
   $10.25 million.

 ¤ 5N, a leading global producer of specialty semiconductors and performance materials, reaches
   a commercial agreement with Rio Tinto to refine tellurium produced at its Kennecott copper
   operation in Utah. Under the agreement, the tellurium will be refined at 5N’s Montréal facility
   in Quebec and will be primarily used for manufacturing thin-film photovoltaic modules by First
   Solar under an existing semiconductor supply agreement between First Solar and 5N.

 ¤ Livent Corp., based in the United States, announces it has doubled its ownership interest
   in Nemaska Lithium Inc., to 50%. Nemaska Lithium is a fully integrated lithium hydroxide
   development project located in Quebec.



APRIL 2022
 ¤ General Motors in Canada announces plans to invest more than $2 billion at its Oshawa, Ont.,
   assembly plant and its CAMI assembly plant in Ingersoll, Ont. The investment is supported
   by $259 million from the federal government to advance the electrification of Canada’s
   automotive sector.



MARCH 2022
 ¤ General Motors announces plans for a $500 million cathode facility in Quebec, in partnership
   with South Korea’s POSCO. The facility will produce cathode active material for GM’s Ultium
   battery manufacturing plans in the United States.

 ¤ BASF signs an agreement to secure land for its future cathode active materials and recycling
   site in Bécancour, Que., further enhancing BASF’s cathode active material production footprint
   in North America. Project commissioning is targeted in 2025.

 ¤ Honda announces it plans to invest nearly $1.4 billion to retool its manufacturing operations
   in Alliston, Ont., to launch the next generation of hybrid-electric vehicles, supported by
   $131.6 million in federal funding.



                                                    The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy          51
     JANUARY 2022
      ¤ Canada’s Electra Battery Materials announces the company has signed a battery recycling
        and cobalt sulphate supply agreement with Marubeni (one of Japan’s largest trading
        companies). The agreement will see Electra benefit from Marubeni’s extensive battery cell
        recyclers network to secure a stable source of recyclable materials for the company’s recycling
        operation, slated for commissioning in 2023.

      ¤ Canadian junior mining company Magna Mining Inc., enters a non-binding memorandum of
        understanding with Mitsui and Co. Ltd., to facilitate Mitsui’s potential acquirement of a 10 to
        12% stake in Magna’s Shakespeare Mine. The Shakespeare Mine, located in Sudbury, Ont., is
        a nickel, copper, and platinum group metals mine. In connection with the transaction, Magna
        Mining said it would sign a joint venture agreement with Mitsui to develop the Shakespeare
        Mine, with Magna serving as project operator.




52    The Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy