Critical Raw
              Materials Act
SUMMARY
The EU's ability to boost its competitiveness, become a climate-neutral economy by 2050, sustain
the green and digital transition and achieve strategic autonomy depends heavily on access to critical
raw materials (CRMs). Key technologies, across all industries, depend on CRMs' unique physical
properties.
The CRM Act (CRMA), aimed at making the EU's supply of CRMs more secure, resilient and
sustainable, entered into force on 23 May 2024. The CRMA lists 34 CRMs, of which 17 are considered
'strategic' (SRMs). The act includes measures to strengthen the EU's raw materials supply chains,
monitor and mitigate supply risks and increase the sustainability of the CRMs consumed in the EU.
It sets the following non-binding benchmarks for the overall capacity at EU level to be achieved by
2030 (in terms of annual consumption of SRMs): the EU should mine 10 % of its annual needs, process
40 % of its needs, and cover 25 % of its needs through recycling. Furthermore, the EU should
diversify its imports of SRMs and, for each SRM, should not depend on any single third country for
more than 65 % of its supply by 2030. The CRMA also sets a number of deadlines for key
developments up to 2031.
The time has now come to implement the new regulation. The CRMA has generally been hailed as a
good first step in the right direction, but its weaknesses have also been highlighted. These include
the lack of specific EU funding and doubt as to whether the measures to accelerate mining will prove
effective. The EU's capacity to achieve the benchmarks for 2030 has therefore been questioned by
a number of experts.
Many proposals for improving the EU's CRM policy have recently been put forward. The Draghi
Report includes 11 specific priority actions, including setting up a dedicated EU CRM platform to
deliver a more comprehensive and coordinated strategy covering the whole CRM value chain. The
Letta Report suggests that the EU could use joint purchasing to set up strategic reserves of key
CRMs to the benefit of the single market. Other proposals outlined in this briefing include measures
to boost circularity, ensure coherence of EU law affecting the CRM sector, and develop global
partnerships to diversify supply.

                                                IN THIS BRIEFING
                                                •   Introduction
                                                •   Main features of the CRM Act
                                                •   Latest developments
                                                •   The road ahead: Main issues and debate on
                                                    possible new policy developments
                                                •   Annex – Deadlines set in the CRM Act




            EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service
         Author: Guillaume Ragonnaud; Graphics: Gyorgyi Macsai and Samy Chahri
                               Members' Research Service
                              PE 766.253 – November 2024                                                EN
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service


Introduction
A wide range of key technologies across all industries, from chips to batteries, medical imaging to
tanks, rely on the unique physical properties of certain CRMs (defined as 'critical' on the basis of
their economic importance and supply risk). The transition to 'net-zero' and the digital age is
particularly materials intensive. Although demand for CRMs is expected to skyrocket in the coming
years, it remains uncertain whether supply will keep up with the projected needs. CRM supply chains
are global, complex, and fragile, which makes them vulnerable to a wide range of risks, including
those linked to geopolitical tensions.
The supply of CRMs is often more concentrated than that of fossil fuels. Furthermore, the EU's
reliance on imports of CRMs is extremely high, sometimes reaching 100 % (e.g. for rare earth
elements – REEs). The EU's strategic dependency in the supply of REEs is a notable example of the
challenges linked to the EU's over-dependence on supply chains dominated by third countries.
The latest outlook released by the International Energy Agency (IEA) in May 2024 points out that
mineral demand for clean energy technologies is expected to double between today and 2030 in a
scenario reflecting current policy settings. It would almost triple by 2030 and quadruple by 2040 in
a net-zero scenario. Furthermore, despite price declines in some CRM markets in 2023 (price falls
were due to a strong increase in supply and high levels of stocks of technologies made with CRMs),
investments in the CRM mining sector are still growing globally (+10 % in 2023) and the growth in
demand for CRMs has remained strong (e.g. +30 % for lithium).
The EU is highly dependent on imports from China for several CRMs. China has imposed export
restrictions on gallium and germanium since August 2023, two SRMs for which China is the main EU
supplier, which has led to a near-doubling of gallium prices in Europe. Moreover, germanium prices
increased by 52 % between June and August 2024 on suspected stockpiling by China. Export
controls on graphite have also been in place since October 2023, and from mid-September 2024
China has imposed export controls on antimony, a CRM for which it is also the main EU supplier.
Antimony prices have hit a record high and doubled compared to last year.
Furthermore, China has banned the export of rare earth processing technologies since December
2023. In addition, China's spending on and acquisition of overseas mines reached record levels of
$10 billion in the first half of 2023, with a particular focus on battery metals such as lithium, nickel
and cobalt.
The need to secure the supply of CRMs is one of the reasons behind the 'rebirth' of industrial policies
globally. Today, nearly all countries (not least China and the United States) have established forms
of industrial policy, and the EU has also recently embraced a more active industrial policy agenda.
During the last mandate, EU legislators marked the 'beginning of a new industrial chapter', adopting
a number of specific regulatory frameworks supporting the production of strategic technologies
(Net-zero Industry Act – NZIA), setting up a Strategic Technologies for Europe Platform (STEP) and
targeting key industries, such as batteries, semiconductors (Chips Act) and CRMs (CRM Act).

Main features of the CRM Act
The CRM Act (Regulation (EU) 2024/1252) entered into force on 23 May 2024. It sets up a framework
aimed at ensuring the EU's access to a 'secure, resilient and sustainable supply of CRMs'.
The CRMA lists 34 CRMs, of which 17 are considered 'strategic' ('SRMs'). CRMs are selected based
on their economic importance and supply risk, and, among them, SRMs are chosen based on their
relevance for the green and digital transition and applications in the defence and aerospace sectors,
forecasted growth in demand and difficulty of increasing production; the CRMA includes the
methodologies to be used in this process. The Commission can review the list of CRMs and SRMs
using delegated acts.




2
                                                         Implementing the EU's Critical Raw Materials Act


  Figure 1 – The 34 CRMs, including 17 SRMs                         The CRMA sets non-binding
                                                                    benchmarks for the overall
                                                                    capacity at EU level to be achieved
                                                                    by 2030 (in terms of annual
                                                                    consumption of SRMs): the EU
                                                                    should mine 10 % of its annual
                                                                    needs; process 40 % of its needs;
                                                                    and cover 25 % of its needs
                                                                    through recycling. The EU should
                                                                    also diversify its imports of SRMs
                                                                    and, for each SRM, should not
                                                                    depend on any single third country
                                                                    for more than 65 % of its supply by
                                                                    2030.
                                                                    The Commission should publish EU
                                                                    recycling capacity benchmarks for
                                                                    SRMs in some waste streams (see
                                                                    Annex). By November 2025, it
                                                                    should also publish, for each CRM,
                                                                    indicative projections of their
                                                                    annual consumption in 2030, 2040
                                                                    and     2050,    and      indicative
                                                                    benchmarks for extraction and
  Source: EPRS.                                                     processing for each SRM, with a
                                                                    view to meeting the benchmarks.
The Commission and Member States should encourage technological progress and resource
efficiency to moderate the expected increase in EU consumption of CRMs below the reference
projection. The Commission will monitor progress towards the benchmarks and towards
'moderat[ing] the expected increase in Union consumption of critical raw materials'. 1 Depending on
the monitoring results, the Commission could propose measures to ensure they are achieved. It
should also ask the European standardisation organisations to develop standards to support the
implementation of the CRMA.
The CRMA sets a number of deadlines up to 2031 (see Annex). For instance, the Commission should
publish, by May 2027, a report detailing the EU's progress towards meeting the benchmarks and
towards moderating the expected increase in EU consumption.

Strengthening the raw materials supply chain
The Commission is responsible for designating certain raw materials projects as 'strategic projects'
through a specific application process. To be designated as strategic, they should contribute to the
EU's security of supply of SRMs, be technically feasible, and be implemented sustainably. These
projects may be located within the EU or in third countries. Projects in the EU should have cross-
border benefits, and those in third countries should add value locally. If a Member State objects to
a potential strategic project on its territory, the Commission will not assess its application. Moreover,
the Commission cannot approve the application of a project without the explicit approval of the
third country concerned.
Member States should designate one authority per relevant administrative level and stage of the
CRM value chain as the point of contact for the CRM project promoter. They should facilitate and
coordinate the permit-granting process for CRM projects.
Strategic projects should be considered by the permitting authority to be in the public interest. The
permitting authority could authorise strategic projects that have an adverse impact on the



                                                                                                       3
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service


environment – falling within the scope of Directives 2000/60/EC on establishing a framework for
Community action in the field of water policy, 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats
and of wild fauna and flora or 2009/147/EC on the conservation of wild birds, or EU legislative acts
regarding the restoration of ecosystems – if it considers that the public interest served by the
projects overrides those impacts, and provided all the conditions set out in those legal acts are met.
For strategic processes, the permit-granting process shall not exceed 27 months when they concern
extraction activities, and 15 months when they concern processing or recycling activities.
Nevertheless, the preparation of the environmental impact assessment report pursuant to Directive
2011/92/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the
environment is not included in the duration of the permit-granting process. When several
assessments of the effects on the environment are required under EU law, they should be bundled
through a joint or coordinated procedure, to prevent overlaps and streamline the process.
The authorities responsible should consider including provisions for CRM projects when developing
zoning, spatial and land use plans, prioritising priority artificial and built surfaces, industrial and
brownfield sites, and active or abandoned mines.
The Commission, together with Member States, should help to facilitate the implementation of
strategic projects and improve their access to private investment. The Commission should also
establish a system to facilitate the conclusion of offtake agreements related to strategic projects.
Each Member State should develop a national exploration programme targeting CRMs, including
measures to acquire and update information on where CRMs occur on their territory.

Monitoring and mitigating supply risks
 Figure 2 - Timeline of the adoption of the      The Commission should monitor CRM supply risks,
 EU CRMA                                         with the support of Member States, by tracking, in
                                                 particular, trade flows, balances between demand
                                                 and supply, concentration of supply, price volatility,
                                                 bottlenecks, and obstacles to trade. A specific
                                                 monitoring dashboard will be available freely online.
                                                 The Commission should also carry out a stress test
                                                 for each SRM at least every 3 years, analysing the
                                                 vulnerability of the supply chain concerned to
                                                 disruptions.
                                              Member States should transmit some relevant
                                              information (on CRM projects or key companies
                                              operating in their territory, along the CRM supply
                                              chain, and on major events that may affect the
                                              sector) to support the Commission in monitoring the
                                              supply risks. Member States should also transmit to
                                              the Commission information on their strategic
                                              stocks of SRMs (held by all public authorities,
 Source: EPRS.                                publicly owned companies, or economic operators
                                              charged with building up strategic stocks on their
behalf) without compromising their defence or national security.
Based on this information, the Commission should adopt a benchmark for a safe level of EU strategic
stocks for each SRM. The Commission may also issue opinions addressed to Member States on the
increase in the level of strategic stocks and production capabilities, and on possible solutions to
make cross-border accessibility of such stocks possible for the production of strategic technologies.
Member States should identify the large companies operating on their territory that use SRMs to
produce batteries for energy storage and e-mobility; equipment related to hydrogen production and



4
                                                        Implementing the EU's Critical Raw Materials Act


utilisation, to renewable energy generation, to data transmission and storage, to additive
manufacturing, and to robotics; aircraft; traction motors; heat pumps; mobile electronic devices;
drones; rocket launchers; satellites; and advanced chips. These large companies should perform a
risk assessment of their SRM supply chain and, if necessary, mitigate the vulnerabilities identified.
The Commission should set up and operate a system to aggregate the demand for some SRMs from
EU companies consuming such materials and seek offers from suppliers to match that demand. To
limit the impact on competition in the internal market, the Commission should carry out an ex ante
impact assessment of the system for each SRM market; EU companies participating in the system
could jointly negotiate the purchase of the SRMs concerned. The Commission should build on the
lessons learned from the joint purchasing of gas under Council Regulation (EU) 2022/2576.

Ways to increase the sustainability of CRMs consumed in the EU
Member States should adopt national programmes including measures that promote circularity,
such as measures to enhance resource efficiency and moderate the expected increase in EU
consumption of CRMs, increase the collection of waste with CRM recovery potential, or promote
circular design and substitution of CRMs in products.
Operators of extractive waste facilities should carry out a preliminary economic assessment
concerning the recovery of CRMs from extractive waste. To improve information about the CRM
potential of closed extractive waste facilities, Member States should publish a database on these
facilities present on their territory, including information on the quantities of raw materials present
in the waste concerned. Member States should also promote the recovery of CRMs from extractive
waste, particularly from closed extractive waste facilities identified in the database and containing
potentially economically recoverable CRMs.
Companies selling market magnetic resonance imaging devices, wind energy generators, industrial
robots, motor vehicles, light means of transport, cooling generators, heat pumps, electric motors
(including where electric motors are integrated in other products), automatic washing machines,
tumble driers, microwaves, vacuum cleaners or dishwashers should label these products, indicating
whether they contain one or more permanent magnets and, if so, which type of permanent magnet
(e.g. neodymium-iron-boron). Information should also be made available on how to access and
remove safely the permanent magnets.
By 24 May 2027 or 2 years from the entry into force of the delegated act setting up the methodology
to calculate and verify it, any company selling products mentioned above, and for which the total
weight of all permanent magnets exceeds 0.2 kg, should publish on a free-access website the share
of secondary (i.e. recovered from post-consumer waste) neodymium, dysprosium, praseodymium,
terbium, boron, samarium, nickel and cobalt present in the permanent magnets. By 31 December
2031, the Commission should adopt delegated acts establishing mandatory minimum content for
secondary neodymium, dysprosium, praseodymium, terbium, boron, samarium, nickel and cobalt
that must be present in the permanent magnet incorporated in the products concerned.
The Commission may recognise some certification schemes concerning the sustainability of CRMs
developed by governments, industry associations and groupings of interested organisations; the
CRMA lays down criteria to be used by the Commission during the application process. These
schemes should be open to all economic operators, verification and monitoring of compliance should
be based on standards, the verifiers should be competent and independent, and an audit report
should be established at the site where the project is located. The requirements for certification
should at least include requirements ensuring environmentally sustainable practices, and the
Commission should publish online a register listing the recognised schemes.
The Commission should decide which CRMs should be prioritised when it comes to making the
declaration of their environmental footprint mandatory. This obligation should only apply if the
Commission has concluded, through a specific assessment, that it would contribute to the EU's
climate and environmental objectives – by promoting the use of CRMs that have a lower



                                                                                                      5
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service


environmental footprint – and if it would not disproportionately affect trade flows and companies'
ability to source CRMs. For these CRMs, the Commission should adopt rules to calculate and verify
their environmental footprint, based on scientific methods and international standards on life-cycle
assessment. The rules should identify at least the three most important impact categories in terms
of environmental footprint, including greenhouse gas emissions. The environmental footprint
declaration should be published freely on the internet.
Furthermore, the Commission should develop environmental footprint performance classes for
CRMs for which calculation and verification rules exist, through delegated acts.
The CRMA creates a European CRM Board, composed of representatives of all Member States and
of the Commission (which also chairs the Board). The Chair should invite representatives of the
European Parliament as observers. The Board supports the Commission in the implementation of
the CRMA – for example, in its assessment of applications for strategic projects or in the
coordination of strategic stocks. The CRM Board has some standing thematic groups, such as on
financing or on circularity issues. The Board should also be used by the Member States and the
Commission to discuss issues related to strategic partnerships in the area of CRMs.

Latest developments
The first meeting of the CRM Board took place on 23 May 2024 (on the day the CRMA entered into
force). The Commission opened the call for applications for strategic projects on the same day, and
the first cut-off date for the submission of applications was set at 22 August 2024. The Commission
received 170 applications – 71 % from within the EU, covering all stages of the value chain – and is
expected to take its decision on the applications in the fourth quarter of 2024.
Furthermore, up to 31 May 2024 the Commission carried out a survey on demand aggregation and
matchmaking under the CRMA, addressed to businesses and other parties interested in pooling CRM
demand and connecting supply and demand for CRMs. The Commission explained that the result of
the survey would contribute to the establishment of this new mechanism.
In July 2024, the EU and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) signed,
under the InvestEU umbrella, an agreement on a new facility to support exploration for CRMs and
SRMs, aiming to mobilise around €100 million in investments. The EU is contributing €25 million from
Horizon Europe, the EBRD is providing another €25 million, and the joint facility aims to leverage a
further €50 million. Some Member States – such as France, Germany and Italy – have also set up
national funds to boost their supply of CRMs.
Under its raw materials diplomacy aimed at securing access to CRMs through strategic partnerships
and policy dialogues, the EU has engaged in strategic partnerships with resource-rich third
countries. By July 2024, it had signed 14 such strategic partnerships 2 on raw materials (see Figure 3
below).
The EU is a member of the minerals security partnership (MSP), which brings together 15 partners 3
to boost public and private investment in critical minerals projects that help to diversify and stabilise
global supply chains, promote high environmental, social and governance standards, and increase
recycling. It is also part of the MSP forum, launched in April 2024 and which has attracted
23 members since July 2024. Open to countries committing to the MSP principles, it aims to promote
cooperation between critical minerals-rich countries and countries with high demand for these
minerals. The CRM Club, announced by the Commission in its 2023 communication on a secure and
sustainable supply of CRMs in support of the twin transition, is a full part of the MSP Forum.




6
                                                      Implementing the EU's Critical Raw Materials Act


In September 2024, the first sustainable investment facilitation agreement (SIFA), between the EU
and Angola, entered into force. It aims to facilitate investment for the purposes of economic
diversification and sustainable development, in all economic sectors, including CRMs. Angola is
thought to have significant mineral potential.

  Figure 3 – Strategic partnerships signed by the EU




  Source: EPRS, based on European Commission data.

In February 2024, the Commission presented a communication putting forward a number of actions
to support the advanced materials sector in Europe, as some of them could substitute certain CRMs,
thus contributing to the objectives of the CRMA.

The road ahead: Main issues and debate on possible new
policy developments4
The Letta Report on the future of the single market, published in April 2024, welcomes the CRMA
but emphasises the need to further intensify efforts to secure the EU's supply of CRMs. Letta
suggests that the EU could use joint purchasing to set up strategic reserves of key CRMs to the
benefit of the single market. Moreover, he recommends promoting circular economy principles
within the single market – for example, by stimulating demand for high-quality recycled materials
and to promote the use of secondary raw materials.
The Draghi Report released in September 2024 acknowledges that the CRMA is a step in the right
direction but emphasises the need for further efforts. Draghi points out that the CRMA must be
implemented quickly and fully.
The Draghi Report puts forward 11 proposals as the next steps beyond the CRMA: 1) develop a more
comprehensive and coordinated strategy covering the whole value chain, building on the CRMA;
2) set up a dedicated EU CRM platform to deliver on the EU strategy, reinforcing supply chain
monitoring and playing a role in joint purchasing of CRMs (it could also manage future EU strategic
stockpiles); 3) develop new financing solutions to support projects along the CRM value chain;
4) reinforce CRM resource diplomacy to secure supply and diversification; 5) develop joint
strategies with other global buyers in the G7 or OECD; 6) further promote mining in the EU;



                                                                                                    7
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service


                                                              7) enhance research and innovation in
    The new European Commission and CRMs                      alternative materials and processes to
    CRMs are among the key topics for the next European
                                                              substitute CRMs where possible, and rely on
    Commission. In her political guidelines for 2024-2029,    components and materials that are more
    Ursula von der Leyen announced a new clean industrial     abundant or less expensive; 8) establish a
    deal for competitive industries and quality jobs in the   true single market for waste and recycling in
    first 100 days of her mandate, focusing on ensuring       the EU; 9) speed up the creation of a
    access to cheap, sustainable and secure energy            sustainable EU CRM market (for example,
    supplies and raw materials. She proposed to activate      prohibit market access to CRMs below a
    and extend the EU's aggregate demand mechanism to         certain threshold for their environmental
    go beyond gas and include CRMs. The Commission is         footprint); 10) develop strategic stockpiles
    also expected to work on new clean trade and
                                                              for some CRMs; and 11) improve CRM
    investment partnerships to help secure supply of raw
    materials. Moreover, she announced a new circular
                                                              market transparency.
    economy act, which will help to create market demand      In a July 2024 briefing on a European
    for secondary materials and a single market for waste,    sovereignty fund prepared for the European
    notably in relation to CRMs.                              Parliament Committee on Economic Affairs
    Stéphane Séjourné, as mentioned in his mission letter,    (ECON), Daniel Gros, Director of the
    is the Commissioner-designate entrusted with              Institute for European Policymaking at
    implementing the CRMA. He will establish an EU CRM        Bocconi University, argues that a new
    platform to support joint purchasing and manage           European CRM fund could be set up to
    strategic stockpiles of CRMs. He is also asked to         invest in the EU's CRM security of supply by
    present the future circular economy act, and to
                                                              acquiring and managing strategic stockpiles
    develop a steel and metals action plan.
                                                              of CRMs, which would foster the aims of the
                                                              CRMA.
A 2024 study carried out for the European Parliament Panel for the Future of Science and Technology
(STOA) by L. Espinoza et al. puts forward a range of possible actions in the area of research and
innovation (R&I) to improve the EU's CRM supply. They include strengthening expertise inside the
EU institutions to support the implementation of the CRMA (which could take the form of a specific
'office' with its own analytical capabilities) and carrying out research into overcoming regulatory
barriers to achieve the CRMA's goals. It further suggests increasing funding allocated to the research
topics linked to raw materials in EU framework programmes, and boosting R&I on demand reduction
(reduced consumption, substitution and longevity of products). There should also be more funding
for R&I aspects of strategic partnerships on raw materials, more research collaboration with non-EU
partners, and international projects should help gather data on supply chains, as these remain
opaque. In addition, research should help to improve citizen engagement and responsible innovation
around new or reactivated exploration, mining and processing sites.
As stressed by Bruegel in its memos to the EU leadership 2024-2029, the effectiveness of the CRMA
remains to be tested. The memos recall that, due to the lack of EU-level funding, the main
instruments of the CRMA are regulatory (such as shortened permitting times or strengthened
circular economy rules).
As recalled by Ditte Brasso Sørensen in an analysis for ThinkEuropa, the EU's capacity to achieve the
CRMA's benchmarks has been questioned by a number of experts, and revitalising mining and
processing in Europe presents several challenges. Mining activities face low social acceptance, and
high energy and labour costs are affecting the viability of CRM projects. Furthermore, decades of
limited research and exploration have left the EU with insufficient information on its mineral
reserves, impeding the development of viable projects. The CRMA's efforts to streamline permitting
processes may not significantly shorten the lead times needed to realise SRM projects, as they
constitute only a small part of the overall preparation time required for such projects. Similarly, the
CRMA's objectives of enhancing processing and recycling activities in Europe face considerable
challenges.




8
                                                         Implementing the EU's Critical Raw Materials Act


Diana Gherasim, in a 2024 analysis for Ifri, also points to the risk for the EU of missing the
benchmarks due to insufficient funding, low public acceptance of CRM projects, volatile CRM prices,
unclear business cases, and ineffective strategic CRM partnerships. The EU should make sure that
the strategic projects receive real benefits, including capital (CAPEX) and operational expenditure
(OPEX) support (for instance, via tax credits). The supply of abundant low-carbon and competitive
energy is key for CRM project holders. In addition, as sustainable mines are more expensive, a
common joint financing facility for CRM could be set up and be linked to an EU stockpiling
mechanism. The EU should also establish a joint funding scheme to support projects in countries
without any national support schemes. Furthermore, she emphasises the importance of bolstering
Europe's mid-stream value chain, particularly in the production of cathode and anode materials, to
ensure a market for EU-sourced and refined CRMs.
In a briefing for the Hertie School – Jacques Delors Centre, Arthur Leichthammer stresses that the
CRMA, as it stands, is insufficient. For him, the CRMA is likely to fall short of its ambitions for two
reasons: first, the acceleration of permitting processes alone is unlikely to increase significantly the
speed of mining investments. Second, the CRMA lacks the financial power of comparable
programmes. As CRM projects are particularly risky, without greater financial support companies
are likely to continue being reluctant to make the required investments. Without additional public
financial support in the form of equity and investment guarantee support, it is unlikely to channel
greater financial resources to CRM projects. Furthermore, the new Commission needs to set specific
strategic priorities for individual CRMs (deciding, for example, whether they should be domestically
sourced or sourced through international partnerships, and on which part of the value chain the EU
should focus). The EU should also promote the use of resilience criteria in public procurement.
Eurometaux estimates that the EU needs to open at least 10 new mines, 15 new processing facilities
and 15 recycling facilities for key SRMs by 2030 (while no mine has opened in the past 15 years in
the EU), and to finance 15 CRM-related projects in third countries through the Global Gateway;
10 000 new workers should also be trained (such as geologists, metallurgists and engineers). In
addition, Eurometaux recommends creating a sovereignty fund for manufacturing, with a strong raw
materials focus; setting up a raw materials bank inspired by the hydrogen bank; and introducing a
new package of State aid guidelines focused on CAPEX and OPEX.
Euromines says that 20-30 new strategic mine projects are needed in Europe to deliver on the
CRMA's 10 % benchmark, and that 'Europe has to take a closer look at the wider framework
governing mining activities beyond the Critical Raw Materials Act'. The Commission should also
enlarge the EU taxonomy to include mining, and reform State aid provisions to unlock investment.
Transport and Environment (T&E) stress that mining waste rules in Europe are outdated and, in some
areas, weaker than those of countries such as Brazil and China. It points to a significant risk of
fragmentation in implementing the Directive on the management of waste from extractive industries
(Directive 2006/21/EC), with many key provisions not clarified and left to the discretion of the
Member States. T&E called on the new Commission to update this Directive – for example, to ensure
community participation from the outset and throughout a project.
The Institute for European Environmental Policy (IEEP) insists on the need to ensure policy
coherence between the CRMA, the eco-design, batteries and waste shipment regulations, and the
Waste Framework Directive to improve circularity in the CRM value chain.




                                                                                                       9
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service


MAIN REFERENCES
G. Ragonnaud, Securing Europe's supply of critical raw materials: The material nature of the EU's strategic
goals, EPRS, European Parliament, 2023.
International Energy Agency, Global Critical Minerals Outlook 2024, 2024.

ENDNOTES
1
     Article 5(2) of the CRMA.
2
     CRM country profiles can be found in the Joint Research Centre's Raw Materials Information System.
3
     Australia, Canada, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Sweden, the
     United Kingdom, the United States and the EU.
4
     This section aims to provide a flavour of the debate and is not intended to be an exhaustive account of all different
     views on the topic.




DISCLAIMER AND COPYRIGHT
This document is prepared for, and addressed to, the Members and staff of the European Parliament as
background material to assist them in their parliamentary work. The content of the document is the sole
responsibility of its author(s) and any opinions expressed herein should not be taken to represent an official
position of the Parliament.
Reproduction and translation for non-commercial purposes are authorised, provided the source is acknowledged
and the European Parliament is given prior notice and sent a copy.
© European Union, 2024.
Photo credits: © Anastasiia / Adobe Stock.
eprs@ep.europa.eu (contact)
www.eprs.ep.parl.union.eu (intranet)
www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank (internet)
http://epthinktank.eu (blog)




10
                                                           Implementing the EU's Critical Raw Materials Act


Annex – Deadlines set in the CRM Act
  Date/deadlines                                                Item

2024

3 May 2024              Publication of the CRM Act in the Official Journal of the EU

23 May 2024             Entry into force of the CRM Act

                        First cut-off date of the open call for applications for recognition of CRM projects
24 August 2024
                        as strategic projects
                        Commission to adopt an implementing act establishing a single template for the
24 November 2024
                        applications for recognition of CRM projects as strategic projects
2025
                        Permit-granting process: Member States to establish or designate one or more
24 February 2025
                        authorities as 'single points of contact'
                        Member States to draw up national programmes for general exploration targeted
24 May 2025
                        at CRMs and carrier minerals of CRMs

24 May 2025             Member States to identify the large companies operating on their territory using
and within              SRMs to produce batteries; equipment related to hydrogen production and
12 months of each       utilisation, renewable energy generation, data transmission and storage, additive
update of the list of   manufacturing, and robotics; aircraft; traction motors; heat pumps; mobile
SRMs                    electronic devices; drones; rocket launchers; satellites; and advanced chips


                        National measures on circularity: Commission to adopt implementing acts listing
24 May 2025
                        products, components and waste streams with a relevant CRM recovery potential

                        Commission to publish a report on the consistency of the CRM Act with other EU
24 May 2025
                        law
                        Each Member State to create a database of the closed extractive waste facilities
24 November 2025
                        located on their territory, including those that have been abandoned
                        (Database) Member States to review the available permitting files, or other
24 November 2025        available documentation when these files do not exist, for closed extractive waste
                        facilities
                        Permanent magnet content: Commission to adopt an implementing act
24 November 2025
                        establishing the format for the labelling of some products listed in the CRM Act
                        Commission to submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council setting
                        out which CRMs are to be prioritised for assessing the necessity and
                        proportionality of declaring their environmental footprint
24 November 2025
                        Commission to present the conclusions of the assessment of necessity and
                        proportionality for the CRMs identified as a priority within 12 months of the report
                        being submitted
                        Commission to submit a report including indicative projections of the annual
                        consumption of each CRM in 2030, 2040 and 2050, including a low, a high and a
24 November 2025
                        reference projection, as well as indicative benchmarks for extraction and
                        processing per SRM, with a view to meeting the benchmarks for 2030
                        Member States to lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the
24 November 2025
                        CRM Act and take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented




                                                                                                            11
EPRS | European Parliamentary Research Service


     Date/deadlines                                           Item

 2026
                       Commission to submit a report to the CRM Board describing obstacles to
 24 May 2026           accessing finance for strategic projects and including recommendations to
                       facilitate such access
                       Commission to share with the CRM Board a draft benchmark on a safe level of EU
                       strategic stocks for each SRM; a comparison of the overall level of EU strategic
 24 May 2026
                       stocks for each SRM and the draft benchmark; and information on the potential
                       cross-border accessibility of strategic stocks
                       (Database) Member States to conduct representative geochemical sampling for
 24 May 2026           extractive waste facilities where available information could indicate the presence
                       of potentially economically recoverable quantities of CRMs
                       Member States to submit a report to the Commission containing information on:
                       progress in the implementation of the measures included in their national
 24 May 2026           exploration programmes; new or existing CRM projects on their territory; key
 and annually          market operators along the CRM value chain established on their territory;
 thereafter            information on the state of their strategic stocks of SRMs; whether they intend to
                       implement the Commission opinion on strategic stocks; information on the
                       national measures on circularity
                       The Commission to adopt a delegated act establishing rules for the calculation and
                       verification of the share of neodymium, dysprosium, praseodymium, terbium,
 24 May 2026
                       boron, samarium, nickel and cobalt recovered from post-consumer waste present
                       in the permanent magnets incorporated in a range of products
                       Operators of extractive waste facilities to submit to the competent authority a
                       preliminary economic assessment study regarding the potential recovery of CRMs
 24 November 2026
                       from the extractive waste stored in the facility, and from the extractive waste
                       being generated, or from the extracted volume prior to it becoming waste
 2027
                       The Commission to adopt delegated acts providing for EU recycling capacity
 1 January 2027
                       benchmarks expressed as a share of the SRMs available in relevant waste streams
                       (Database) Member States to carry out a more detailed sampling with chemical
 24 March 2027         and mineralogical characterisation for extractive waste facilities with potentially
                       economically recoverable quantities of CRMs, where this is environmentally sound
 24 May 2027
 and every 3 years     The Commission reviews and, if necessary, updates the list of SRMs
 thereafter
 24 May 2027
 and at least every    The Commission reviews and, if necessary, updates the list of CRMs
 3 years thereafter
                       Any natural or legal person that places on the market any products listed in the
 24 May 2027           CRM Act which incorporate one or more permanent magnets and for which the
 or 2 years from the   total weight of all such permanent magnets exceeds 0.2 kg to make publicly
 entry into force of   available on a free-access website the share of neodymium, dysprosium,
 the delegated act     praseodymium, terbium, boron, samarium, nickel and cobalt recovered from post-
                       consumer waste present in the permanent magnets incorporated in the product
                       Commission to monitor progress towards the benchmarks, and towards
 24 May 2027
                       moderating the expected increase in EU consumption of CRMs, and to publish a
 and at least every
                       report detailing the EU's progress towards meeting those benchmarks and
 3 years thereafter
                       towards moderating the expected increase in EU consumption




12
                                                        Implementing the EU's Critical Raw Materials Act


   Date/deadlines                                           Item

                    Commission to adopt implementing acts on a single template to be used by the
                    owners of certification schemes related to the sustainability of CRMs, which will
 24 May 2027
                    provide the minimum information required for applications for recognition by the
                    Commission
                    (Database) Member States to introduce all the information required in the
 24 May 2027
                    database of the closed extractive waste facilities located on their territory
                    (Database) Member States to adopt and implement measures to promote the
                    recovery of CRMs from extractive waste, particularly from closed extractive waste
 24 November 2027
                    facilities identified in the database containing potentially economically recoverable
                    CRMs
 2029
 24 May 2029        Date of application of Articles 40 and 41
                    Commission to carry out an evaluation of the CRM Act in light of its objectives and
 24 May 2029        present a report to the European Parliament, the Council, and the European
                    Economic and Social Committee
                    Article 28 to apply to magnetic resonance imaging devices, motor vehicles and
 24 May 2029
                    light means of transport that are type-approved vehicles of category L
 2031
                    Commission to adopt delegated acts laying down minimum shares for neodymium,
                    dysprosium, praseodymium, terbium, boron, samarium, nickel and cobalt
 31 December 2031
                    recovered from post-consumer waste that must be present in the permanent
                    magnet incorporated in the products listed in the CRM Act
Source: EPRS.




                                                                                                      13